---
title: 100 Joel Salatin Skewing The Market
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2023-01-30)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:00:00):**  Hey there, welcome back for episode number 100 of the Ranching Reboot Podcast. I'm your host,  Brian Alexander. You might have seen me on social media as Red Hills Rancher. On this podcast,  we talk to some of today's most innovative and progressive farmers and ranchers,  
**[0:00:12-0:00:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:00:12):**  rebooting your thinking about food systems and the people that operate them.  This podcast is sponsored by my generous patrons over on patreon.com forward slash  Red Hills Rancher. You can go check out all the awesome benefits and sweet merch available  
**[0:00:24-0:00:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:00:24):**  by clicking the link in the show notes. If you're new here, I just wanted to let you know you can  expect a new episode every Monday morning. Make sure you're subscribed to the podcast so you get  all the new episodes when they drop first thing Monday morning to start your week off right.  
**[0:00:38-0:00:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:00:38):**  Don't forget to check out my other social media. You can find all those links and much more by  clicking on the linktree link in the show notes. And don't forget to check out my YouTube page.  On this week's episode, I'm joined on Zoom by Christian libertarian environmentalist  
**[0:00:52-0:01:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:00:52):**  lunatic farmer himself, Joel Salitan from Polyface Farms in Swope, Virginia.  We cover all sorts of things from backyard chickens to creative ways to deal with the  food police and onwards to homesteading tsunami that Joel thinks is coming.  
**[0:01:04-0:01:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:01:04):**  I love making content for the podcast and I've road mapped out some goals and milestones  and I need your help to get there. I don't mind if you skip the ads. Sometimes I do it too,  especially on Joe Rogan and that's okay. I need you to take just a tiny moment out of your day  
**[0:01:17-0:01:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:01:17):**  while you're scrolling and go check out my sponsors. Please either click the link in  the show notes or on my linktree. Every click matters to my sponsors. This episode of the  podcast sponsored by Bobolink's from Blue Nest Beef. Bobolink's beef sticks are incredibly  
**[0:01:31-0:01:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:01:31):**  delicious made with natural seasonings and slow cooked to perfection. They have the right blend  of tang, smoke, and spice. I always have some close by for a protein boost when I'm too busy  to stop for a meal. Bobolink's are gluten-free, soy-free, casein-free, and sugar-free packed with  
**[0:01:43-0:01:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:01:43):**  seven grams of protein and only 70 little calories per serving. So if you're looking for a snack  that's both nutritious and delicious, give Bobolink's beef sticks from Blue Nest Beef a try.  I know you'll love them as much as I do. Click the link in the show notes and use the code  
**[0:01:56-0:02:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:01:56):**  BOBOREBOAT for $10 off your first pack. Confession time. I have a very hard time eating. I'm a picky  eater and it's been a struggle my whole life to fuel my body properly. When I got curious about  nutrition I asked my doctor about vitamins and that led to a conversation about where  
**[0:02:10-0:02:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:02:10):**  vitamins come from. He didn't know and I realized I needed to make a change so I started searching  for a better source of high quality nutritional supplements to spend my hard-earned dollars on.  I reached out to several companies and I'm proud to announce a partnership with a company I can  
**[0:02:23-0:02:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:02:23):**  stand behind. Introducing One Earth Health grass-fed beef organ supplements. Organ meats  are the most nutrient-dense foods we can eat and have been uniquely treasured by our ancestors.  Organ meats are not only nutrient-dense but they're also a great source of essential vitamins  
**[0:02:36-0:02:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:02:36):**  and minerals. The liver is packed with vitamin A, K, and E while the heart is a great natural  source of COQ10. The spleen contains four times the amount of iron as the liver and the kidney  is a great source of vitamin B complex. The pancreas supports gut health. I can't tell you  
**[0:02:51-0:03:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:02:51):**  how much better I feel since I started taking these supplements. When I don't take them I have  much less energy and focus. Just a few capsules every morning gives me everything my body needs  to thrive. We are built to eat diverse diets that include whole animals and organ meats. We have  
**[0:03:04-0:03:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:03:04):**  lost our perspective on food and its purpose. Give yourself the gift of radical health. Give yourself  One Earth Health grass-fed beef organ supplements. Visit www.oneearthhealth.com  forward slash brian alexander or just click the link in the show notes.  
**[0:03:34-0:03:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:03:34):**  Well Joel Salton good morning sir it is great to finally have you here with us on ranching reboot  how are you in Virginia? I'm doing great and it's a privilege and an honor to be with you yes.  Well that's a little bit flattering. So I imagine out there in podcast land there's maybe one or  
**[0:03:52-0:04:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:03:52):**  two of my listeners that don't actually know who you are so can you give us your uh 30-second  introduction elevator speech? Sure so I'm a Christian libertarian environmentalist  capitalist lunatic farmer in Virginia Shenandoah Valley. Our family co-owns Polyface Farm in  
**[0:04:10-0:04:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:04:10):**  in western western western Virginia not to be confused with West Virginia and in the  Shenandoah Valley we have beef pork chicken turkey rabbit lamb duck eggs and and lumber  forestry products and we direct market everything to you know to individuals as a as a brand. Very  
**[0:04:33-0:04:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:04:33):**  cool very cool. Haven't you written also like 12 or 13 books? Yeah 15 books and in fact I just  finished number 16 Saturday and I mean just the rough draft of it but it's it's sitting here ready  for the next for the next review yes. Oh can we get an early preview of the title? Yes the  
**[0:04:56-0:05:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:04:56):**  title is homestead tsunami good for our country kids and critters.  Okay I get it. Wow I think that's a great place to jump off and so in the last couple years since uh  all right Spotify give me another COVID warning. Since COVID hit the world and really started  
**[0:05:20-0:05:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:05:20):**  changing the way people look at oh their job and what's essential and social contact and especially  food and food culture it does kind of seem like we're getting as you know as you put it in your  book title a tsunami of new homesteaders. You know new money tech money trying to flee the cities  
**[0:05:42-0:06:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:05:42):**  flee the east coast flee the west coast and go somewhere where land is cheaper where they can  work remotely and do a little homesteading. I'm assuming you see some problems with that.  Well I see a great deal of encouragement from that. I'm thrilled to see people  
**[0:06:04-0:06:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:06:04):**  become homesteaders and so this book is about the why what is driving this everything from  you know urban crime to yeah you mentioned it you know food you know food safety food security issues  you know kids and screen time all sorts of all sorts of issues and so I think  
**[0:06:30-0:06:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:06:30):**  intuitively intuitively Brian when people feel like the wheels are going to come off  if the wheels are going to come off I don't want to be stuck in the city. They want to be out  where they can you know drink from a creek you know shoot a deer you know and survive and so  
**[0:06:48-0:07:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:06:48):**  there is absolutely a homestead tsunami going on right now in the country and of course it's  you know it's driving a lot of things. I mean you know a nuance of it was the fact that in  2020 1 million new backyard flocks of chickens started. 1 million new backyard flocks of chickens  
**[0:07:11-0:07:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:07:11):**  in 2020. In 2020 Lehman's who's the you know they're the not non-electric supplier there in  Ohio they sold 10 years worth of canning lids in six months or I'm sorry in a year in 2020 they sold  what they sold in canning lids what they normally sell in 10 years and so these all speak of  
**[0:07:36-0:07:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:07:36):**  of a renewed interest in you know in these kinds of self-reliant independence issues. The phrase  I hear people come in here all the time and they say how do I disentangle? How do I disentangle?  They feel you know with digital currency coming along the tracking we see around how do I  
**[0:07:58-0:08:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:07:58):**  disentangle from the system so I can you know so I can opt out and I think the homestead  movement is part of that you know part of that whole awareness just like you said.  Yeah you know people are wanting to be more in charge of their food and you know you brought  
**[0:08:17-0:08:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:08:17):**  up a million new backyard chicken flocks in 2020 and you know something that's been in the news  by the time this comes out it'll have been a couple weeks ago is egg shortage and egg prices.  Yes. That was something we talked about I've talked about previously in podcast episodes about  
**[0:08:33-0:08:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:08:33):**  you know what do we do if one of these big commercial hatcheries go down and where I'm  going with this is yeah we've got a million new people that want to do backyard chickens  and I'm assuming that most of those bought their fertilized eggs or bought chicks you know from  
**[0:08:48-0:09:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:08:48):**  farm store or from one of our big commercial hatcheries and it seems like the the egg shortage  that's going on right now in grocery stores is because there's not layer flocks because  they had to be culled several months ago for bird flu so where I'm going is  
**[0:09:06-0:09:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:09:06):**  are you developing your own chicken breed do you raise your own chickens or are you still buying eggs?  So for our for our layers for our layers we we have been hatching our own chicks now we have our  own breeder flock we hatch our own eggs and have been doing that now for about eight years  
**[0:09:23-0:09:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:09:23):**  and I can assure you they are I mean it's a hassle it's a pain we don't like it but I can tell you  these birds are are substantially better than the ones that we can get from the hatcheries even the  good hatcheries they're they're more docile they're smarter they're a little bit heavier  
**[0:09:43-0:10:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:09:43):**  heavier bodied and and so you know it just makes sense that if if you if you move your  your genetic base farther into a a system that resembles what you're what you're wanting out the  other end that over time you're going to develop a better fit and so we are still buying our our meat  
**[0:10:09-0:10:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:10:09):**  birds our Cornish cross we're still buying those from commercial hatcheries but we we have  definitely moved into a you know an internal sustaining our own you know our own hatch our own  chicks and everybody that sees these they want some we haven't sold any yet we haven't because  
**[0:10:28-0:10:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:10:28):**  right now we've just this year it'll be the first year that we haven't bought any pullets any little  chick pullets from a hatchery so we're just now getting to us to a scale that that hopefully we'll  that hopefully we'll be able to produce all of our own all of our own chicks and frankly you know the  
**[0:10:46-0:11:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:10:46):**  um you know the the skill of it you know you would think that these little incubators with all their  little computer microchips and humidity and and controlled egg things you think they'd be all  uh perfect but but they're not there's there's still a there's still an art to it for sure do  
**[0:11:05-0:11:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:11:05):**  you have any problems too any problems not problems wow do you have any thoughts about  maybe trying to breed your own meat birds and i get you know like we've got let's say 28 chickens  and i'm i'm not the chicken person here trust me i'm not the chicken person but i can see the  
**[0:11:22-0:11:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:11:22):**  difference between you know uh between some some of the cross breeds that we have running around  and what a straight run Cornish cross does and how fast they gain there's no doubt in my mind that  you know those Cornish cross birds are definitely a much much more efficient feed converter  
**[0:11:39-0:11:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:11:39):**  um but it also seems like they're just don't have as much going on upstairs as you know some of the  red birds or the barred rocks or anything else oh for sure well uh so i i think the answer is two  things one is obviously you know we're hatching we're hatching our own pullets so if you're gonna  
**[0:11:59-0:12:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:11:59):**  if you need you know if you need uh three thousand pullets a year well guess what you're also gonna  have three thousand cockrels okay and uh and so we we have the cockrels the the little uh  male chicks and so we we have raised them up and uh we sell them everything from pet food to as  
**[0:12:20-0:12:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:12:20):**  gourmet you know gourmet like heritage breeds birds uh which you know is probably not exactly  true but but they're like that and um and so and certainly you know we we like those birds so um  so if if we couldn't get them from a hatchery we could certainly eat eat the roosters as we say we  
**[0:12:41-0:13:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:12:41):**  could eat the brothers of the sisters and and uh so you know that's certainly an option but beyond  that until then um we do we we do get chicks we do get the meat birds from a hatchery and those birds  uh are are more saleable in today's market so you know one of the things about marketing is  
**[0:13:03-0:13:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:13:03):**  that you you can't be but so weird you know you can be you can be a nudist and you can be a buddhist  but if you're a nudist buddhist i mean you're just too weird no nobody nobody believes you and so  so even among the you know the the foodie gourmands the the foodie aficionados um by and  
**[0:13:20-0:13:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:13:20):**  large they still want that nice big double breast they still want that nice big plump chicken and um  and so we we just from a from a marketing standpoint we continue to patronize the  you know the uh what we call the the racecar nascar high octane double-breasted a bird  
**[0:13:42-0:14:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:13:42):**  uh we still maintain that just from a market share if if that if that became unavailable  then we'd go back to the we'd go back to the uh the roosters of the the the brothers of the sisters  and that all makes sense that totally makes sense and  
**[0:14:04-0:14:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:14:04):**  i i think that dual purpose breeding is starting to come back in style not just for cattle you know  we need to start breeding our cattle to do better on forage higher milk production numbers on you  know on less and you know i can i'm not familiar at all with hogs like i don't do hogs my experience  
**[0:14:25-0:14:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:14:25):**  with hogs was limited to uh the mid-90s when i was working for a neighboring um crop farmer they grow  i think they still grow certified seed wheat but they had some pigs and this was uh this was like  the 94 95 time frame right before the bottom fell out of the hog market and i remember farrowing  
**[0:14:48-0:15:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:14:48):**  houses i remember having to go clean out farrowing houses and you know remove remove dead sows remove  dead piglets and um that's probably one of the core memories for me and that's one of the reasons  that i don't think i ever really want to be involved in any sort of hog type system or hog  
**[0:15:06-0:15:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:15:06):**  type kfo so all right i'll box myself into a corner um that's about your pigs since we're  talking about pigs yeah so so our pigs you know obviously they don't they don't come from a kfo  and we buy our piggies from people who breed on pasture they farrow they actually farrow on  
**[0:15:30-0:15:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:15:30):**  pasture or at least in in in uh in in pods uh where there are numerous sows or you know where  uh everything can run around and uh so yeah it's certainly not a not a crate not a confinement  house not a a factory situation and we don't farrow here at our farm uh again you know we  
**[0:15:53-0:16:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:15:53):**  don't have anything against farrowing it's just that you know our farm gets somewhere close to  15 000 visitors a summer a year and um and a lot of a lot of kids and a lot of moms that are stuck  on their self on their uh you know iphone while their little you know two-year-old climbs up into  
**[0:16:10-0:16:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:16:10):**  the pen with the sow steps on a little baby pig and then the sow eats the eats the child and next  week there's a big you know front page article about you know local toddler eaten by sow at local  you know farm we don't want that kind of publicity and so we buy our piggies from farms that don't  
**[0:16:28-0:16:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:16:28):**  have visitors and we supply them a nice steady price and keep them in business and we get to  put all of our attention on production stock so we get we get wiener piggies you know 40 to 50  pounds and then we raise them on up to to slaughter size and so uh and and of course we raise we raise  
**[0:16:46-0:17:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:16:46):**  them on pasture um you know in the in the dead of winter yes they are inside but they're on large  they have large areas to run deep bedding that they can dig in and burrow down in they get they  get hay every day they can eat half of it and poop on the other half and and so it's a it's a very  
**[0:17:06-0:17:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:17:06):**  sanitary clean smelling kind of uh situation and so yeah pigs pigs uh you know they definitely  in in their in their worst smelling in their worst smelling scenario they are the worst of all the  livestock that's for sure uh but but but it doesn't have to be that way you you can put a  
**[0:17:25-0:17:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:17:25):**  carbonaceous diaper under them with wood chips and and and and sawdust and straw and stuff and uh  and and soak up all that bedding and it can be it can be very uh very enjoyable for sure  so do you think too many people get caught up in the mechanics of your message and not see the  
**[0:17:45-0:18:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:17:45):**  forest for the trees trying to replicate what what you're doing in some part without understanding  the why or the whole system  well yeah i think so um you know the  
**[0:18:00-0:18:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:18:00):**  you know the the why the the big picture nuance is um it's kind of hard to grasp sometimes  and so so what you do is you you pick some ingredients you pick some ingredients and  you start baking the cake and uh sometimes you don't know why you're baking the cake  
**[0:18:23-0:18:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:18:23):**  and uh you know that that can be that can be an issue but uh often on on your way in the mechanics  you start you start seeing the new the nuances of why and so it's it's a bit of a it's a bit of a  you know a catch-22 what comes first uh do you just do the right thing and then you and then  
**[0:18:42-0:19:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:18:42):**  you kind of learn why or do you have to understand all the the philosophical whys uh you know before  you do the right thing there's probably a little bit of you know a little bit of both there  but i guess i guess the thing if there's if there's one thing that on that topic  
**[0:19:04-0:19:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:19:04):**  and i don't mean this to sound you know uh proud full of anything like that but you know  we have been at this a long long time and um and you know when i go visit somebody that's been  successful at something for a long long time uh the first thing i want to do is um  
**[0:19:24-0:19:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:19:24):**  is assume that that they've worked out a lot of the a lot of the things but you'd be amazed how  many people they come they don't they've never raised a chicken they come and they take one look  well i'd change this i'd change that i'd change this no um uh you know it's better it's better  
**[0:19:42-0:20:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:19:42):**  to just duplicate first and become efficient uh efficient at our system before i think before you  start making uh major changes like like a lot of people oh how do you you move those shelters man  that's just so much work and labor to move those shelters all the time and so people start you know  
**[0:20:01-0:20:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:20:01):**  trying to uh make great big ones you move with a tractor or or uh put wheels on all of them or  automate them or some such thing and the fact is you know there aren't there probably aren't of all  the thousands of people who have done this there probably aren't i'm going to say 10 in the whole  
**[0:20:19-0:20:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:20:19):**  country that have duplicated our benchmarks our benchmarks of efficiency um you know that so that  requires you having you know the right kind of construction on a shelter moving them the right  direction having the cut the right kind of dolly to move them the right kind of technique to move  
**[0:20:35-0:20:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:20:35):**  them the right kind of thinking about feet and water and is it empty or full when you move them  i mean the time of day to move them uh there are there are a ton of nuances around this  and um and so you know uh we i mean i'm open to changes and we've certainly tried when somebody  
**[0:20:55-0:21:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:20:55):**  comes along and says hey you know i think i think we've got a better we've we've we've built them  out of different material we've made different dimensions we've we've tried big ones and little  ones and and and all sorts of things and you know we just uh we just come back to our little simple  
**[0:21:12-0:21:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:21:12):**  a little simple design and move them by hand and you don't have to go to the gym for exercise  that is one of the things about doing you know quote regenerative ag is you're outside a lot  more less reliant on machinery and doing a lot more physical type labor and it helps keep you  
**[0:21:30-0:21:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:21:30):**  in shape you know when i i haven't done any strip grazing since 2020 but when i did it in  2020 and 20 or in 19 and 20 oh man you know getting out and walking 15 18 000 steps first  thing in the morning yeah you know that helps keep you going all day kind of helps put you  
**[0:21:49-0:22:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:21:49):**  in a positive mindset little physical activity outside in the sunshine whether it's raining or  sleeting or fog or snowing we're out there um i will not build electric fence in a thunderstorm  though yeah yeah that's uh that's very wise i've i've been uh i've had lightning come in on me a  
**[0:22:08-0:22:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:22:08):**  couple of times over the years and yeah it's not fun to build electric fence in a thunderstorm  so one of the things i think i saw you say is the farm to table movement focuses on blaming  the consumer for the problem in the food system and whether or not that's your quote or not it's  
**[0:22:27-0:22:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:22:27):**  it's it's something i think needs some discussion yes the consumers get a vote with their food dollar  but i don't think that they're to blame for the problems in the current system  um well this is a this is a good matter of discussion i mean ultimately ultimately farmers  
**[0:22:51-0:23:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:22:51):**  produce what consumers want they've always done that the the the market the market drives the  production and so uh if consumers want convenience food and hot pockets and squeezable velveeta  cheese uh that's what that's what they get and um and so until you know unless and until consumers  
**[0:23:14-0:23:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:23:14):**  start making the connection between their health and their food and their health their food and the  landscape you know farmers aren't going to make that difference and i think i think i can say this  with some authority because at our farm you know we serve we service institutions restaurants  
**[0:23:38-0:23:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:23:38):**  you know thousands of families and um but our weak link today if you ask me well what's your  what's your weak link at polyface what's your weak link my answer is very quick our weak link is is  market is market uh you know we could we could double tomorrow if we and i'm not i'm not whining  
**[0:23:57-0:24:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:23:57):**  i'm not gonna don't read read more into this i'm not whining or complaining i'm just stating a fact  that that um that we could we could double production tomorrow with our existing land base  and and personnel um you know without without doing much the the weak link is marketing we we  
**[0:24:20-0:24:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:24:20):**  need people to uh you know to connect the dots that when they look at their plate so you know i've  so you know i've kind of developed this kind of a metaphor so when you sit down you look at your  plate squint your eyes look through the food some farm on the other side produced that food  
**[0:24:42-0:25:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:24:42):**  some some landscape put that food on your plate as you squint your eyes and you look through that  food what do you see what kind of landscape do you see and we start having to we start  when you do that you begin thinking intentionally about you know about what you're doing i'm not  
**[0:25:01-0:25:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:25:01):**  trying to make a cult and saying you know it's it's a sin to ever eat a you know a snickers bar  okay i like a snickers bar as well as anybody else all right but it is probably a sin to eat one  every single day uh and so and so that's what i'm getting at um and i like the 80 20 rule you know  
**[0:25:20-0:25:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:25:20):**  do 80 right and 20 gives and that 20 gives you enough that you can go to your you know niece's  birthday party and enjoy the the walmart cake you know uh and not feel guilty about it and so so  uh i'm looking for those 80 20 consumers who do connect to get out dots and are ready to take  
**[0:25:40-0:26:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:25:40):**  take their intentional you know their intentional um landscape their their intentional landscape  touch to that level okay so circling back you said the market drives production and i agree  with that but i think that our market quote market what we're talking about here is the  
**[0:26:04-0:26:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:26:04):**  american food consuming yeah um they've been manipulated and lied to by labels they've been  they've been i feel like they've been manipulated and lied to by label claims on packages you know  it goes back to things that that have kind of been talking about in other episodes like enriched  
**[0:26:27-0:26:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:26:27):**  wheat flour okay so we mill the germ off the wheat to take away all the good crap and then  we're going to enrich it with other crap from somewhere else where does another stuff come from  and sure the american public doesn't think that's important they just want to see that big claim up  
**[0:26:43-0:27:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:26:43):**  in the corner enriched or fortified with you know 13 vitamins and minerals  so you know these labels and all these label claims for a small operator like you and i like  it's hard for it's i'm not gonna say it's hard it's easy for me to go to the meat packer and  
**[0:27:02-0:27:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:27:02):**  have them put my brand my name on the meat package label right that's easy but if i want to make any  any nutritional claims or right or anything other than this is a piece of beef i've got to go to the  food police and show them this is what i want to say this is my documentation that says that that  
**[0:27:22-0:27:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:27:22):**  this is not bullshit and it's the claim i want to make on my package yep yep yep that's right  that's right uh and and uh and those and those nutritional those customized nutritional uh  claims are very very expensive you know uh twenty thousand dollars apiece for example just just to  
**[0:27:42-0:28:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:27:42):**  get just to get one and so uh so that's where you um you know you you have to use your messaging  uh to overcome that so all all i all i will um i will say in this space is  every person every person is responsible for the for the for the teachers  
**[0:28:09-0:28:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:28:09):**  and for the belief system they embrace and you know what you're what you're bringing up here  is the it's the it's the bane of the human existence you know why why when we were starting  our farm here in 1961 dad brought in every agriculture expert both public and private  
**[0:28:30-0:28:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:28:30):**  some he paid some were just public people said how do i make a living on this farm every single one  of them said build silos borrow more money plant corn graze graze the wood lot uh you know and use  chemical fertilizer now that was the advice that they were giving to every farmer out there  
**[0:28:47-0:29:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:28:47):**  dad didn't buy it why didn't dad buy it i mean that's the question of the age isn't it you know  why does one person why does one person look at that label and say this is a bunch of this is a  bunch of crap and and and the next person maybe the next person says well i don't even believe  
**[0:29:07-0:29:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:29:07):**  labels you know if there's something that i that i can't pronounce you know i don't get that kind  of food um and another person says well you know as much as i can i'm gonna i'm gonna get food with  a face and know your farmer know your food kind of thing um and and so i guess what i'm what i'm  
**[0:29:26-0:29:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:29:26):**  trying to i i hate victimhood well i can't i just i just don't know i can't do this i can't cook  because i just don't have enough time meanwhile you know they're sitting there watching food  and they're trying to get food and they're trying to get food and they're trying to get food and  
**[0:29:39-0:29:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:29:39):**  i just don't have enough time meanwhile you know they're sitting there watching five netflix shows  a night and i just don't have time to cook i mean the average american male right now brian the  average american male spends 20 hours a week uh uh this is the average american male between 25  
**[0:29:57-0:30:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:29:57):**  and 35 years old spends 25 hours i'm sorry 20 20 hours a week playing video games  so so here here is the average male between 25 and 35 playing video games so i'm looking at that  saying so who's responsible for knowing something if you took those 20 hours and you listened to  
**[0:30:21-0:30:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:30:21):**  the you know to the um ranching reboot podcast if you you know if you if you spent that time  well doing anything more productive than playing a video game listening to your books listening to  other podcasts sure absolutely yeah but i'm i'm i'm a guest on yours so i'm going to promote yours  
**[0:30:41-0:31:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:30:41):**  the point the point is the point is who's responsible who's responsible for my body of  belief and knowledge and it's not something and i i think that this uh well the yes  is there an orchestrated whatever conspiracy effort to make ignorant cons absolutely the  
**[0:31:01-0:31:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:31:01):**  industry loves ignorant people the government loves ignorant people okay a power loves  ender people there's a lot of money to be made with ignorant people okay i totally get that but  you and i for some for some reason you and i have have exposed ourselves to the fact that  
**[0:31:22-0:31:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:31:22):**  you and i have have exposed ourselves we didn't take the whatever the red pill uh you know we  you and i have have have pushed ourselves to expose ourselves to the road less traveled by  to the to the different drummer i mean there's a you know there's a ton of little things you know  
**[0:31:43-0:32:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:31:43):**  cliches that you can put to go the path the unorthodox path and we have found it uh um you  know satisfying i will tell you this that in the early i'm gonna say um i'm gonna say in the in the  80s and 90s almost everybody that came to visit our farm was a you know basically a  
**[0:32:09-0:32:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:32:09):**  liberal democrat tree hugger gay a worshiping uh you know  tree hugger okay then guess what along came the homeschooling movement and the homeschooling  movement suddenly shifted our customer base and people who came and were interested in what we  
**[0:32:29-0:32:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:32:29):**  were doing yeah we still have we still have the we love them you know the the liberal uh  tree hugger earth muffin but now we have this huge huge contingency of very conservative uh a lot of  them are you know a church-oriented you know very uh homeschoolers and and what i think happens is  
**[0:32:54-0:33:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:32:54):**  each of us each of us has this you know this kind of path that we're on  and if you're on a very conventional path at some point in your life you're going to intersect with  something unconventional it might be medical it might be agricultural it might be food it  
**[0:33:12-0:33:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:33:12):**  it might be investment it might be financial it might be educational or recreational but you're  going to intersect with something that's unorthodox how do you respond to that you say oh that's that  you know those are the stupid people you know those are those are idiot people or do you say  
**[0:33:28-0:33:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:33:28):**  hey i'm gonna dig into this a little bit let me try to find this and what i saw was that the  homeschooling movement spawned it awakened so so people got fed up with the public schools  they started homeschooling and and and and they were so happy with what they saw with this even  
**[0:33:47-0:34:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:33:47):**  though it was more work and more effort and it wasn't convenient they said well i like i like  what i see you know my kids aren't bringing home a bunch of bad habits my kid you know my kids are  are self-confident you know and and they have interest and and they said well that was really  
**[0:34:02-0:34:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:34:02):**  satisfying i wonder what else i'm missing next thing you know they've got a garden then a grain  meal a milk cow and they're and they're canning tomatoes and you know and they're going down this  this other this other path uh other things and so and then the next thing you know they're going to  
**[0:34:16-0:34:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:34:16):**  an acupuncturist and a chiropractor and taking fewer medicines you know uh and growing some herbs  outside their back door you know and so so it's that kind of response when you intersect with the  unorthodox it's that response that determines are you going to be blessed with additional discovery  
**[0:34:37-0:34:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:34:37):**  or you're going to shut that door and say nah i'm just going to go the i'm just going to swim  downstream and it'll all be easier you hit on some great points there um so my my wife now our girl  my girlfriend at the time homeschooled her daughter through middle school and just like you  
**[0:34:55-0:35:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:34:55):**  said she didn't bring home a bunch of bad habits from everybody else's kids right another word i  usually throw in there but i'll leave it out for this podcast and when she got to high school she  was much better mentally prepared and emotionally prepared to deal with you know mental health  
**[0:35:20-0:35:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:35:20):**  you know with all the crap that happens in high school during those years and i she's an awesome  adjusted human uh she's at kansas state university in the architecture program  and she's supporting herself through college i mean through a job and and through scholarships  
**[0:35:37-0:35:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:35:37):**  yeah i think it's she's an awesome kid and i don't there's no doubt in my mind that she would not be  on the path she's on if she would have gone to public school for all of those years and it almost  seems like i i kind of just got this idea and it's not only about half formed that homeschooling  
**[0:35:59-0:36:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:35:59):**  is a gateway drug the libertarianism and homesteading food culture  yes yes absolutely and if you if you go to a a current uh home you know homeschooling convention  you know all every state has their homeschooling conventions if you get where you people buy  
**[0:36:19-0:36:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:36:19):**  curriculums and all this stuff and you will see everything there from from alternative alternative  medical insurance to alternative uh finance to alternative to libertarian type politics  uh you know it's a it's it's it's a now it has it has broadened and and that's why i think this  
**[0:36:38-0:37:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:36:38):**  idea and you know what i'm so appreciative of you i've never said this before so that that's  indicative of a great question when you tease out a kind of a new nuance of thinking but i have never  i've never articulated that idea of of a pathway of life that intersects with the unorthodox  
**[0:37:00-0:37:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:37:00):**  let's just let's just let that let that think for a minute your pathway of life it intersects with  the unorthodox what do you do with that and goodness in a time of incredible censorship  and shutting down the minority view that is that is a profound question for every single person to  
**[0:37:20-0:37:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:37:20):**  ask how do i respond when my life intersects with the unorthodox very good question and i think a  lot of people are not prepared for that intersection of the unorthodox and they fall back into a  comfortable predictable easy pattern because easy comforting answers even though they're a lie  
**[0:37:43-0:38:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:37:43):**  are a lot easier to swallow than any sort of uncomfortable truth that what you've been taught  your whole life is wrong or everything or most everything you know about the world and how the  world works is wrong because you've been lied to your whole life by the people that are in charge  
**[0:38:02-0:38:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:38:02):**  of the system yeah absolutely well i mean peer dependency you know peer dependency is uh you know  affects affects everyone and i've been very clear uh over the years that one of my greatest  blessings was growing up in a home that that actually embraced being different most people  
**[0:38:25-0:38:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:38:25):**  are trying to wear the right fashion uh uh you know invest in the right places buy the right things  um you know have the right entertainment stuff go to the right places and vacation  you know all that sort of thing and our family uh truly embraced being different and i'm so  
**[0:38:45-0:39:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:38:45):**  now i'm so grateful and what happened to your daughter you know um a part of that is is adoption  of value systems you know uh value systems are like muscles they come on they start as a little  infant and they get and they get stronger and stronger and generally value systems are not in  
**[0:39:05-0:39:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:39:05):**  place until about nine years old uh obviously it differs you know some some get it earlier some  or later but but around nine is where you're kind of your your your conscience what's right what's  wrong what you know what's tempting and what's what's tempting that's enticing and what's  
**[0:39:26-0:39:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:39:26):**  tempting that's oh i would never do that those kinds of things actually begin forming or actually  kids can formulate those somewhere nine ten years old and so your daughter by homeschooling early  by the time she got what thrown thrown to the dogs in school she was solid she was solid she  
**[0:39:47-0:40:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:39:47):**  knew who she was she knew what she believed and and so that's why you saw her just you know with  a with a true north navigate through that you know that period that that peer pressure and all  the temptations she just navigated through she's going to be a she's going to be a fantastic um  
**[0:40:06-0:40:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:40:06):**  you know lady and obviously obviously you you know you see that and so it's that it's that value  system uh you know it takes it takes time to develop and it develops you know like you said  it starts to develop when they're about nine ten years old which really corresponds with  
**[0:40:24-0:40:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:40:24):**  fifth grade which out here out here in the near west or midwest whatever you want to call it  that's when they start middle school right right yeah we thought it was really important to  you know it to control the influences in her life in that really critical period  
**[0:40:46-0:41:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:40:46):**  because you know i i grew up not grew up um i had experiences working with some other young people  that were homeschooled you know they were in their late teens early 20s and even in their mid-teens  and they were just you know they were respectful they knew how to talk to an adult they knew how  
**[0:41:06-0:41:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:41:06):**  to deal with an adult and that comes from during that critical period from you know 9 to 15  going with your parent yeah and observing how they talk to people go with them to a business deal  and observe how they do a business deal like those kind of things are invaluable at that age  
**[0:41:27-0:41:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:41:27):**  but in the public school system it's non-existent it's completely non-existent and that's a problem  and during that time frame you know children are learning things you know they're discovering  things about their bodies they're discovering things about society they're learning you know  
**[0:41:41-0:41:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:41:41):**  new words well you want to be cool at school right so you want to go tell everybody this  cool thing that your bigger brother told you or that you know big sister told you that you  you accidentally saw yeah you know might be above your age you want to be cool so you're going to go  
**[0:41:54-0:42:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:41:54):**  tell all your friends and it without without really having the mental capacity maybe to  understand some of these things you're seeing and without an adult around to explain them to you  because like you know let's be honest like everybody knows you're a libertarian everybody  
**[0:42:14-0:42:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:42:14):**  listens to my podcast by now i'm pretty sure they've got a clue if not hey i'm a libertarian  voted that way for over 20 years but i don't like to get overly you know i don't like to really get  political because everybody has a choice and i think a lot of libertarians  
**[0:42:30-0:42:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:42:30):**  maybe give some of us some of the rest of us a bad name and hell maybe we're in that camp too  and don't even know it but you know it's about freedom and personal responsibility  which is why libertarianism and the homeschool movement kind of play hand in hand  
**[0:42:48-0:43:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:42:48):**  and it's also teaching a lot of self-reliance  it's also teaching a lot of self-reliance so i forgot where i was going with that one again  so as as we breed these cultures of self-reliance you know we're starting to see more and more  
**[0:43:07-0:43:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:43:07):**  homesteaders more and more people that are very interested in taking taking ownership of their  food and of their health and as we start seeing let's just say it big money or tech money  fleeing the cities fleeing the west coast and they're coming to areas where land is cheaper  
**[0:43:31-0:43:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:43:31):**  yep and that's pretty much mostly a lot of the area between you and i how do you see  um well i see it becoming more and more difficult to make a living in agriculture because land  prices keep going up input prices keep going up labor prices like wow they're just totally out  
**[0:43:53-0:44:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:43:53):**  of control and i don't think that any current system adequately addresses the land and labor  economics of food production in a natural setting so i guess the other piece of that is  we've so heavily subsidized production agriculture for so long corn wheat and beans you know the the  
**[0:44:20-0:44:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:44:20):**  three major major commodity crops okay we can use corn to make ethanol then we can take those  distillers grains and we can feed them to cows and they do fantastic it's very difficult to compete  in a low input system on let's just say native range against the guy that's got  
**[0:44:43-0:45:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:44:43):**  an ethanol plant next door then he gets that subsidized waste stream from the ethanol plant  yeah that how do you see that  yeah well you you've got you got several threads there and so i think you and i would agree  
**[0:45:04-0:45:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:45:04):**  that whenever the government intervenes in a marketplace it skews excuse what adam smith  called the invisible hand of the market you know to go where it wants to go and so i certainly  don't have any problem with you know with ethanol i don't have any problem with um you know actually  
**[0:45:25-0:45:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:45:25):**  i don't really have a big problem with growing corn or beans um i certainly don't have any  problem with growing cows on on pasture but the problem is when the government starts throwing  uh money at one at one side or the other it skews it it has a ripple effect of skewing throughout  
**[0:45:46-0:46:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:45:46):**  the marketplace all the things related to that item and so i would like to uh i would like to  eliminate every single manipulative thing from subsidy to insurance to grants to anything in  fact you know in my perfect role i just abolished the usda but i know that's not going to happen but  
**[0:46:07-0:46:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:46:07):**  if we if we could eliminate if we could eliminate the the skewing in the market and that includes  that includes who can sell and who can't for example you know if you came to my farm looked  around asked around and and and as to consenting as two voluntary consenting adults we wanted to  
**[0:46:31-0:46:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:46:31):**  transact a a pig that i'd butchered or some baloney i'd made or some chicken broth that i'd made  i can't sell it to you without a government approved label and facility that costs hundreds  of thousands of dollars and so the result is that there are there are probably tens of thousands if  
**[0:46:53-0:47:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:46:53):**  not hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurial farmers of every scale big to small who are  ready to service to to service their neighborhoods and communities with good food who can be  who can't because the food police regulate them out of business because the the food safety laws  
**[0:47:15-0:47:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:47:15):**  are scale prejudicial they are much easier to comply with if you're big than if you're small  and so that becomes a very market manipulative thing if to enter the market you have to be at a  certain scale to enter the market that then prohibits entrepreneurs and embryonic startups  
**[0:47:36-0:47:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:47:36):**  from being able to enter the market which which which obviously skews the the pricing so you know  i'm totally with you that the that the system if you will the system is definitely stacked against  um against ecologically based uh certainly small scale based and and direct market based  
**[0:47:59-0:48:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:47:59):**  uh if we take those three the the ecology the um the scale and the and the direct market it  it's skewed against all of those things and and therefore makes a very uh unfair playing field so  that that's one element to it but the second thing i think that's important so so you look at that  
**[0:48:20-0:48:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:48:20):**  and say well you know my lands how am i going to change that you know i'm a stephen covey um  um you know seven habits of highly effective people one of them is don't spend your time  worrying about the stuff that you can't that you can't influence let's focus on the things that you  
**[0:48:37-0:48:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:48:37):**  can so what can i influence and so what i can influence is the way i farm and so um so what's  happening is there is a tremendous amount of abandoned land right now uh as farmers age out  you know the average farmer is now 60 years old so a lot of land is being inherited by kids that  
**[0:48:58-0:49:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:48:58):**  don't want to farm um or it's it's still owned by very very elderly people that are that are  trying to figure out how to get out and and the problem is that when um when the the impact when  the the price of entry is so big that young people can't get in then old people can't get out so both  
**[0:49:24-0:49:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:49:24):**  generations are stuck here one wanting in they can't the other one exit they can't get off and  and they're both stuck here so one of the one of the uh the the the options that we're seeing and  it's being used more and more is is using portable infrastructure to manage land so in other words  
**[0:49:45-0:50:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:49:45):**  rather than having rather than having a a feedlot for example to finish beef you finish them on grass  using electric fence a portable electric fence guess what that can be done on land you don't own  with portable infrastructure so that if your if your arrangement goes south if your deal you know  
**[0:50:04-0:50:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:50:04):**  if your deal breaks if you have a divorce you can easily take all your portable electric fence and  and a water trough and you can you know you can take that somewhere else uh as opposed to a  stationary you know a typical stationary barn feedlot blah blah blah uh and so you know our  
**[0:50:21-0:50:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:50:21):**  pastured poultry all the infra you know the infrastructure is portable pastured pigs it's  portable turkeys it's portable um and so we're seeing now a lot of young farmers accessing this  newly available land from aging out farm situations with a with a mobile a mobile uh  
**[0:50:45-0:51:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:50:45):**  arrangement that allows them to get a toehold and a foothold in agriculture without owning land in  fact the people that i read after take a very strong position that land ownership and farming  are two completely different businesses they're two completely separate businesses one of my  
**[0:51:04-0:51:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:51:04):**  mentors uh allen nation founder of stopman grass farmer um he said that the u.s is moving toward  a european system where people with money buy land as a defensive measure because land tends to not  you know not go down in value over time and and so so the land is is is being owned by as you said  
**[0:51:28-0:51:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:51:28):**  this money coming out of the cities okay um now some of those want to farm most of them don't have  a clue what they're you know what they're doing and some of them are looking they're actually  looking we've helped about six people uh actually find property for us to manage so they now have  
**[0:51:47-0:52:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:51:47):**  their their what i call their agrarian bunker if the wheels fall off um and and we're able to  expand our farming operation on land that's cheap that we don't own as as a collaboration with city  money city money being injected into rural property as a safe haven and so so um yeah  
**[0:52:10-0:52:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:52:10):**  definitely the the land price ratio uh uh the the ratio of price to production value is completely  different now than it was you know 60 years ago uh you know when mom and dad bought this place  it was 90 an acre and a feeder calf sold for 180 and you could raise half of one on an acre  
**[0:52:32-0:52:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:52:32):**  so that was a 90 of production and a market price of 90 an acre that's a one-to-one market price to  annual production ratio today the land is seven thousand dollars an acre and that feeder calf is  seven hundred dollars you can still raise half of it on an acre so that's 350 so instead of a  
**[0:52:51-0:53:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:52:51):**  one-to-one ratio it's a 20 to one ratio and that's why that's why you can't do what grandpa did  that's a good way to put it and okay so in my context where i am i'm i'm on the very northern  northeast edge of what we call the red hill so it's it's still native range because it was too  
**[0:53:14-0:53:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:53:14):**  steep and and too rough to farm uh of the acres that i have less than less than seven percent of  it was ever broken out with a plow and the last of it was put back to grass in the late 80s so i  feel pretty fortunate that i have i have a resource that as long as i steward it correctly will be  
**[0:53:35-0:53:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:53:35):**  there year after year after year after year after year but i think in the context of okay what are  most of my name you know i'm gonna do it the way grandpa did it just a few miles north of me get  up into pratt county everything is tillage almost everything is tillage up there lots of circle  
**[0:53:57-0:54:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:53:57):**  pivot center pivot irrigation and i hear that a lot well this is what we're doing because this is  how grandpa did it grandpa farmed here so i'm going to keep farming here and this is how he did it  and in a lot of those situations you'll have somebody that's farming and their family's  
**[0:54:16-0:54:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:54:16):**  been farming for i don't know 50 80 100 years and they're farming some of their own land  but their own land is the minority they're farming for you know other landowners they're a tenant you  know they're on crop share whatever those systems incentivize those systems and those relationships  
**[0:54:38-0:54:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:54:38):**  tend to incentivize production production production production at all costs because  it's yield you know dollars per acre the landowner wants to get their check at the end of the year  right the farmer's got to be able to stay in business but that completely ignores any of the  
**[0:54:55-0:55:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:54:55):**  ecological or environmental costs in that style of production um so i can't remember where it was we  talked about it it might be in the next episode we talk about like soil erosion like so like just  here's the quick math is the average production commodity field in the united states is going to  
**[0:55:18-0:55:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:55:18):**  lose roughly five tons of topsoil per acre five tons of topsoil per acre is about as thick as  this sheet of paper yeah is that per year yeah five tons of acre a year and that's roughly a  sheet of paper that's that's the thickness of a sheet of paper on an acre now i know where  
**[0:55:38-0:55:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:55:38):**  there's a quarry around i know somebody's got a dump truck be happy to sell you all the dirt you  want at ten dollars a ton and that truck's probably going to cost two to two hundred fifty dollars an  hour to run so why are farmers letting their most valuable asset wash down our creeks and rivers  
**[0:55:56-0:56:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:55:56):**  and fill up our ponds and dams you know if we if it's minimum fifty dollars an acre replacement  cost for that soil and as a farmer you realize i get to take sun and water and all these chemicals  that my salesman sold me and these really high-priced seeds that this other salesman  
**[0:56:16-0:56:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:56:16):**  sold me and put it in the soil and it'll grow the part of that that i think they're missing is the  soil and i don't think that there's a farmer alive i don't think there's a farmer in the united  states that could afford to put 50 worth of soil back on their field every year  
**[0:56:35-0:56:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:56:35):**  i think you're i think you're exactly right and and of course you know that that country where  you are uh was broken long long after where i am here in virginia you know where i am by the time  we got to our farm uh somewhere between three and five feet of topsoil had washed off and and there  
**[0:56:57-0:57:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:56:57):**  were you know there were many areas on our farm i mean we we we made a lot of progress on our farm  i mean we we measured one 16 foot deep gully in other words from the bottom to the the rim on top  16 foot deep gully you know how much soil that is and and we had those and still do so uh many of  
**[0:57:17-0:57:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:57:17):**  them uh they're they're now they're now forested we planted trees on them uh they're not eroding  anymore but the gullies are still there because i can take you there and we can walk walk across  these gullies you know on these hillsides and i'm always thinking when i see those what we're  
**[0:57:33-0:57:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:57:33):**  what were those people thinking you know they were good methodists and presbyterians and  lutherans and they were going and you know putting money in the offering plate to send  into a mission in africa or you know india or pakistan meanwhile their their their entire  
**[0:57:49-0:58:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:57:49):**  the the entire uh responsibility of their stewardship was washing down the river what were  they thinking and i've i've i've wrestled with that a long time and i i think it's just because  well sir albert howard sir albert howard who wrote an agricultural testament basically you know is  
**[0:58:08-0:58:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:58:08):**  considered the godfather of of of the modern you know sustainable ag movement uh because he you  know his in his lifetime of work he developed the scientific recipe for you know for for composting  aerobic composting he said an agricultural testament written in 1943 or published in 1943  
**[0:58:28-0:58:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:58:28):**  he said it is the temptation of every civilization to take what nature spent thousands of years  creating and convert it to cash i believe that's right yeah and and i think i think it's just like  it's like erosion and so many things i mean i mean erosion erosion of the money supply i mean  
**[0:58:51-0:59:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:58:51):**  look look at you know isn't somebody concerned that in the last 12 months you know our dollar  lost like for 13 of its purchasing power so your savings your your your hundred thousand dollar  savings that you had are now only worth you know uh eighty five thousand dollars that's erosion  
**[0:59:15-0:59:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:59:15):**  but but but as but as a culture you know it happens it happens um whatever you know slow  enough we we see any road where you start talking about erosion we we see erosion in our nutrition  we see erosion in our in our health robustness look at the you know uh in in our mental health  
**[0:59:36-1:00:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=0:59:36):**  look at the teen suicide rate um there is erosion in in all sorts of places and and i think the the  the problem with the word with erosion is that it indicates a change that is that is slow enough  that we that it's not catastrophic enough to see we only respond to things when they become  
**[1:00:06-1:00:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:00:06):**  catastrophic and unless it's catastrophic we don't respond and so as as you said it's easier just to  go along you know just to whatever do tomorrow what you did today right you know um uh you know  routine is routine is is fun um and so and so so erosion uh is just slow enough that it doesn't  
**[1:00:33-1:00:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:00:33):**  excite excite response and i think that's the way farmers view there's i mean we got you know whoa  whoa we got the bills paid another year you know and that's that's basically the that's basically  the mentality and it's it's very very unfortunate but but again but again i agree with you i mean i  
**[1:00:54-1:01:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:00:54):**  think i think that the you know that the role that all these government programs and and manipulative  picking winners what they do i mean that if my cow dies there's no there's no uh usda uh agriculture  insurance to protect me from my cow dying but if grasshoppers eat my corn there is that's an  
**[1:01:19-1:01:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:01:19):**  unfair advantage to the corn grower versus the versus the cow versus the the guy that's running  his cows on grass a wildfire came through right now and burned up all my grass  i'd have to figure that out wow well i have a neighbor that's got more cows than i have  
**[1:01:44-1:02:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:01:44):**  in basically a feedlot at their house yep big pile same fire comes through  and wipes out their hay pile guess what i mean after all the donated hay comes in they get money  thrown at them to go replace their commodity hay but they won't even think about looking at my  
**[1:02:03-1:02:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:02:03):**  grasslands it'll be six months later by the time they come out to even talk to me about it and i'll  be in the middle of the growing season and they'll be like well where's the damage well the damage  was the two months that i had to figure out an alternative feeding arrangement for my cows until  
**[1:02:19-1:02:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:02:19):**  i grew grass yeah yeah so back back to government you said that you know some of the comments you  made and i'll say this government sets the barrier to entry you know they set a fairly high bar  barrier entry no matter what you want again whether it's a commercial kitchen um you know  
**[1:02:41-1:02:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:02:41):**  killing your chickens killing your own cows that's a fairly high barrier to entry but at the same  but at the same time they they create this barrier to entry that keeps a lot of the small players out  they also don't create a standard of excellence the problem with government standards is that is  
**[1:02:59-1:03:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:02:59):**  the minimum performance standard that you must meet not the maximum not the greatest not even  something that's pretty good it's the minimum standard so i feel like we have a lot of these  you know multinational companies that you know conglomerates and not just not just the big four  
**[1:03:19-1:03:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:03:19):**  meat companies the the ag chemical companies the seed companies i mean they're all kind of  intertwined anyway they're not performing to the highest standard they can they're performing to  the minimum standard that the government will allow them to get away with and what kind of  
**[1:03:38-1:04:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:03:38):**  comes to mind is there's a presentation that i sat through about small meat plants and there's the  there's the test to pass program and the test to fail type program and what some of these smaller  operators are finding is if they use a test to fail program versus a test to pass program they  
**[1:04:02-1:04:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:04:02):**  end up with a much higher quality product but they spend a lot of money on testing so what i mean by  that is when you are testing to fail you test and you don't find any contamination in your plant you  keep testing you keep testing you keep testing until you do find some and then you can go root  
**[1:04:21-1:04:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:04:21):**  the cause out of that contamination and put processes in place so it doesn't happen again  when you're testing just for the minimum standard and doing the minimum amount of tests that you're  required to do you know for the year in order to keep your you know whatever kind of certification  
**[1:04:35-1:04:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:04:35):**  you have whether it's on a packing plant or commercial kitchen or a secondary processing  facility right a lot of them will just do the minimum amount of tests required by law  and then when they do get a then when they do get a test that fails or detects some contaminant  
**[1:04:51-1:05:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:04:51):**  or contagion they have to recall a bunch of product because they didn't catch it like oh  we've maybe had this problem for three months well we better recall a half a million pounds of meat  and throw it away that's nothing for tyson jbs or any of the other big nationals for a small plant  
**[1:05:07-1:05:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:05:07):**  that's death so i think these small plants are in more of a regime where they're testing to fail to  find their own internal process controls because they can't afford a recall then as that business  scales up and becomes a for-profit business somebody in that board is going to look at well  
**[1:05:26-1:05:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:05:26):**  why are we spending all this money on testing and we're not ever failing anything we need to cut that  back to increase our profits yeah that's a that's an interesting that's an interesting take and i  think you're i think you're basically right you know we uh we co-own a small federal inspected  
**[1:05:46-1:06:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:05:46):**  slaughterhouse here that we use for our beef and pork and stuff and um and and for sure the  the standards that we have in place are substantially higher it's it's far cleaner  than a big outfit um and and you're exactly right it's probably because we can't afford we can't  
**[1:06:08-1:06:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:06:08):**  afford to shut down for a week uh we can't afford a recall and and we're and we're not we're not  connected to be able to handle the the politics of being able to deal with those kinds of things  and so um so yeah we're so so the point is that as a business we are far more vulnerable  
**[1:06:31-1:06:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:06:31):**  we're far more vulnerable to a to a shock then  then the the great big outfit that is politically connected  um and and can you know and can get and get stuff handled easier just be just because of their  
**[1:06:54-1:07:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:06:54):**  because they're they're politically connected i mean you got to realize when you see when you see  a big recall in the marketplace there were a lot of negotiations a lot of negotiations in the back  room as to just how that was going to roll out that's not just you know you're not going to  
**[1:07:12-1:07:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:07:12):**  that's not just some some uh whatever some inspector some on honest government agent saying  here's what you got to do no there's there are senators and congressmen and legislative aides  and all sorts of of people involved when it's when it's a big outfit when it's a little outfit no  
**[1:07:33-1:07:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:07:33):**  they just throw the book at you because you know you're not you're not politically connected but  you know when you're when you're a big outfit you uh you know you you suppose some of those  senators are getting involved in that process because they're shareholders in those meat  
**[1:07:49-1:08:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:07:49):**  companies well of course of course yeah i mean and and that's why i mean the whole the whole  regulatory you know the whole regulatory environment is what we call a revolving door  you know people from the industry go into the regulatory environment right i mean i mean the  
**[1:08:04-1:08:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:08:04):**  fact that the fact that the um what the the head of the head of Pfizer you know the head of Pfizer  is now in charge of this of the COVID vaccine program from the government i mean you know it's  it's a uh or you know michael taylor became the the food czar under obama michael taylor his  
**[1:08:28-1:08:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:08:28):**  career was with Monsanto he was the lead attorney in bringing genetically modified organisms to the  world and now he's our he's our food czar i mean really uh so that's the that you know that's the  kind of thing it it's incestuous it it's a fraternity of incestuous uh players that locks out  
**[1:08:51-1:09:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:08:51):**  politically and and and uh practically the the smaller player and that's why all these things  are written scale prejudicially and uh and so that you know that that creates a that creates  again a very unfair it would be like for for the for for for the listeners here maybe it'd be good  
**[1:09:14-1:09:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:09:14):**  to say i mean we're you know here we are uh at the end of the NFL season so can you imagine if  in order to play a football game you you could not do a pickup game in anybody's backyard the only  place that you could play football is on a an NFL an official NFL stadium with a paid referee  
**[1:09:42-1:09:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:09:42):**  doesn't matter whether you're you know you're a sunday's you're a group of sunday school kids that  want to play a pickup game of football you know uh a family outing where all the cousins get together  let's not play football no no no you can only play football on an NFL field and with a with  
**[1:09:59-1:10:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:09:59):**  an official credentialed referee to referee the game that's what we've got right now in the food  system you can only play if if you're on an accredited field with a government referee that's  the only way you can play the game and can you imagine if we had that kind of system with football  
**[1:10:23-1:10:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:10:23):**  where would people where would people innovate moves and learn how to handle a football and and  and do plays and have the enjoyment of the football you know it would where would the feedstock  be to come in to the you know to the to the players talent yeah to develop the talent and  
**[1:10:43-1:11:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:10:43):**  and that's exactly where we are in the food system people like us listen many many many years ago the  government came in they said your outdoor chicken processing is inherently hazardous uh you can't  produce a safe chicken if you if you uh if you process the chicken uh in an open-air facility  
**[1:11:03-1:11:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:11:03):**  well we had our chickens tested for bacterial contamination our chickens averaged 133  uh 133 cultured whatever bacterial units per milliliter i've already i'm already passed my  you know my pay grade on it but that's how they measure it ours measured 133 that's what you got  
**[1:11:22-1:11:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:11:22):**  to remember of colony forming units and the supermarket birds from the same lab same day  same everything tested 3 600 3 600 so we've got 3600 colony forming units versus 133 so yeah so  we weren't we weren't sterile we don't want to be sterile but look we were 25 times cleaner than  
**[1:11:48-1:12:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:11:48):**  what's in the store now you would think you would think that somebody in the food inspection business  would say wow how can you get chickens that clean let's um you know let's maybe want to change  protocols and see if we can get chickens that clean um but it didn't it didn't influence them  
**[1:12:07-1:12:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:12:07):**  one iota um in in our in our negotiations and discussions that we that we were that much cleaner  and even though we did it without chlorine and the supermarket chicken had 40 40 chlorine baths  it was still that much dirtier than ours and so you know these so we have answers we have answers  
**[1:12:28-1:12:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:12:28):**  to the salmonella we have answers to the e.coli we have answer to the to the contagion the pathogens  that are in food i'm saying we we small producers we pastured poultry we we unorthodox alternative  producers we have answers we're the sandlot players we're the backyard we're the we're the  
**[1:12:47-1:13:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:12:47):**  ones you know uh out here you know uh uh uh innovating and fooling around with this and  and if we if we can't play the game the game can't advance creatively to solve problems  because it can only it can only move at the rate pace and creativity of of the bureaucracies and  
**[1:13:10-1:13:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:13:10):**  that's a very slow pace it's a good segue into talking about some ways to kind of skirt around  food police rules in order to put you know beef pork chicken any other proteins eggs or any other  farm produce in the hands of consumers and i one of my favorite books that you've written is  
**[1:13:36-1:14:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:13:36):**  everything i want to do is illegal like yeah sometimes i almost want to wear the title  on a medallion around my neck everything i want to do is illegal and you know the the other one  of course is folks this ain't normal yeah um how do we how do we deal with the food police i guess  
**[1:14:00-1:14:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:14:00):**  as a small producer that wants to be direct to consumer which i feel that's kind of what my  listenership is represented by is people that uh want to do more direct to consumer sales we're  looking at trying to get out of the city and come out in homestead  
**[1:14:15-1:14:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:14:15):**  out of the city and come out in homestead  so wow that's a it's a great it's a great uh uh question here let me just jump right into it  quickly by saying um that we we now have john moody and i well whatever three or four years ago  
**[1:14:34-1:14:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:14:34):**  started what we call the rogue food conference the rogue food conference and our and our mantra is  circumvention not compliance there comes a time there comes a time when tyranny or regulation  becomes so stifling it is actually more efficient to figure out how to circumvent it than how to  
**[1:14:58-1:15:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:14:58):**  comply and we are kind of at that point today that's a little bit of what led the homeschooling  movement they tried and tried and tried to to to work within the public school system and then  somebody said you know what forget it let's just circumvent it let's do something different and  
**[1:15:14-1:15:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:15:14):**  and you see that in various things you know um throughout history and so uh and so we're at that  point in food where as you described the the food police for a small direct market producer has  become so onerous that we actually we actually might get along better instead of trying to trying  
**[1:15:38-1:15:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:15:38):**  to trying to get the license just forget the license and do something different so the rogue  food conference that we've we've had five of them the sixth one is going to be uh may may 12 and 13  here at polyface and we invite everybody to come i get a shameless plug for it um and what we're  
**[1:15:56-1:16:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:15:56):**  doing is we're putting on the stage people who have figured out how to circumvent the the  regulations so let me just throw a couple of them out there um we're all familiar with community  supported agriculture and and the whole uh you know raw milk herd share that sort of thing the  
**[1:16:18-1:16:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:16:18):**  subscription service so that that is that is kind of the yeah hold it back okay maybe some of us  aren't familiar with that can you give us the 30,000 foot view of the what what you just said  the herd share and milk share yeah okay so so um in like in virginia you can't it's illegal to sell  
**[1:16:35-1:16:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:16:35):**  a glass of raw milk you can't sell raw milk and but what you can do is you can invest in a herd  and get a herd share so you can get a so just like community supported agriculture csa where i i  invest in a share of that farm i pay 500 and that gives me a box of vegetables every week through  
**[1:16:59-1:17:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:16:59):**  through the summer the reason that that is not a sale is because there is a shared risk on both  producer and buyer so it's not a sale it's an investment so the produce is not a product that  you're buying it's a dividend it's a dividend from your investment in other words if you if you buy a  
**[1:17:22-1:17:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:17:22):**  a 500 produce csa for example and grasshoppers come and wipe out the the the tomatoes and you say  hey look i didn't get my tomatoes i want my money back the farmer says sorry you didn't buy tomatoes  you invested in my farm this was a dividend so there so um so where the government where the  
**[1:17:43-1:18:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:17:43):**  government has control with the food police is in transactions that are seller buyer not investor  dividend receiver there's there's a dramatic difference between buyer seller and investor  dividend uh uh uh receiver i just found food as a dividend of land investment yes exactly exactly  
**[1:18:10-1:18:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:18:10):**  so it's not a buy sell it's an investment dividend that that's that's a that's a totally different  thing and so that that permutation has been used in the csa's is now used in the in the herd share  and it's now been extended uh in a kind of a new refinement into the into the um the pma which  
**[1:18:31-1:18:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:18:31):**  stands for um private membership association private membership association and um and these  are basically modeled after country clubs so so a golf country club so think about this in a in a  golf country club you join as a member and you then you then receive services as a perk of  
**[1:18:58-1:19:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:18:58):**  membership okay so you're not actually buying uh buying services you are you are you are receiving  benefits from your membership right like you know you don't have to rent a golf cart once provided  for you there's a caddy there with your club somebody's showing you shoes yeah depend on the  
**[1:19:24-1:19:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:19:24):**  level and the yeah yeah yeah okay all right so so the pma the the the private membership association  is a a mechanism now for food that people are doing we're actually looking at at this  as a kind of a side a side hustle here at our place um to circumvent all the food laws  
**[1:19:48-1:20:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:19:48):**  you don't um and your your your employees become ministers and your so you don't take social  security you don't do workman's comp you don't take sales tax uh there's no inspection because  it's a completely private membership association and and um a lot of people don't realize there are  
**[1:20:08-1:20:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:20:08):**  i think 17 um non-profits and so this kind of use utilizes the um 501 like 11 and 12 or something  like that i'm getting over my pay grade here but but but the there is now an entire network there  is a a burgeoning network that is developing that is putting together personal membership  
**[1:20:31-1:20:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:20:31):**  associations um for for people the the one the the um the the you know the catalyst or the the  lightning rod for this is amos miller i don't know if you've heard about amos miller and his  his uh things and so he had a 4 000 member uh pma in pennsylvania and uh and he's just been through  
**[1:20:52-1:21:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:20:52):**  the courts and won so the pma is a fairly new new one um there's uh there's another one um  neath neath e bali in north carolina has started a food church so there you join her food church  and you get the benefits of membership which include getting food it's totally uninspected  
**[1:21:13-1:21:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:21:13):**  you know nothing okay um so you know i can butcher a beef and sell and sell uh steaks  and there's no inspection no requirement whatsoever um if if i'm a member of this food church  uh there's another there's another i there's another idea that's being floated and that is to  
**[1:21:30-1:21:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:21:30):**  to uh sell a class so imagine uh i want to sell i want to sell uh my my beef directly to people  okay so my customers sign up for a butchery class i butcher the beef on the farm cut it up  and if you take the class for a hundred dollars you get a box of meat so you're you're you're  
**[1:21:53-1:22:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:21:53):**  you're buying a bookery class that you can take online and then here comes a box of meat to you  and so it's as a part of taking the class so you're selling information and giving away  product so there are there are numerous of these kinds of of circumventions developing  
**[1:22:15-1:22:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:22:15):**  it's an exciting space and the rogue food conference is all about shining a spotlight  on the successful ones that people are doing of course it runs the government agents crazy  government agents go crazy over this and um and you know you may or may not get a visit depending  
**[1:22:33-1:22:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:22:33):**  but i'm very excited about this this gorilla marketing under the radar almost a black market  system uh that's developing to create space for exactly the kind of person you're talking about  who is trying to get some some beef or some you know some some pork or something to their to their  
**[1:22:53-1:23:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:22:53):**  neighbors and they're stifled by either they can't get into a slaughterhouse because there aren't  enough slaughterhouses or or to to get there legally there's too many hoops to run through  and so and so the the localized commerce never happens because it's just too difficult  
**[1:23:12-1:23:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:23:12):**  yeah yeah i can see that so circling back to your food church um comment the first thing that came  to my mind you know food church we've been talking about food police is you know there's something in  one of those documents that kind of governs how our country is run and supposed to be  
**[1:23:30-1:23:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:23:30):**  that says that there's supposed to be a separation of church and state  and you know thinking about that food church concept  another thought that came to mind is patriotism and i think a lot of folks have the wrong idea  
**[1:23:46-1:24:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:23:46):**  about what patriotism is and isn't patriotism is not the love of your government patriotism is not  the love of your politicians patriotism is the love of your country patriotism is the religion  of the soil so i though the those just really struck me when you're talking about the concept  
**[1:24:12-1:24:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:24:12):**  of a food church and i'm kind of rolling around in my head okay food church i could be the minister  of the plains and you know maybe maybe have some insulation from the government because the  separation of church and state or maybe that's just a big reach but uh i think that's a big  
**[1:24:30-1:24:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:24:30):**  no that's that's exactly it's the my um in other words the the basic concept is that my my beliefs  my beliefs require that i eat this kind of food and so so you you go you go into it you know from  your beliefs you know it's interesting the permutations of the of the the freedom of  
**[1:24:55-1:25:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:24:55):**  religion uh uh situation for example many many years ago i helped a lady here locally who was  an atheist get religious exemption for her daughter because she proved in court that  atheism is a religion just as much as as being a methodist or a presbyterian or a lutheran  
**[1:25:18-1:25:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:25:18):**  atheism is a religion as well and so she's a religious person and so she's a religious  religion as well and do you know they ended up having to grant her a religious exemption for  homeschooling based on her atheistic beliefs and so you know the constitution doesn't say it has  
**[1:25:39-1:26:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:25:39):**  to be protestant it doesn't say it has to be you know a christian denomination and so so these  these belief structures uh have been at the at the core of supreme court rulings about religion  way more than you know did did did jesus exist or do you believe the bible um  
**[1:26:05-1:26:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:26:05):**  rather it has been based on belief because people because the because the courts understand that  this is not really about religion i mean a religion is a belief system so when you come  down to it it's about beliefs not whether you have a bible in your home and that's a that that's  
**[1:26:24-1:26:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:26:24):**  that's i think uh it's a little bit shocking sometimes to christians to to hear that  uh but but that's the truth and that's how broad that's how broad that that religious liberty is  it is it is really a wonderful it is a wonderful thing and has broad aspects so i i'm i'm losing  
**[1:26:46-1:27:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:26:46):**  my hair have been for a long time it's just you know slowly it's not retreating it's just migrating  a little bit yeah you're done here i'm not self-conscious about it i made the decision  20 years ago that i just wasn't i wasn't going to lose any sleep over it wasn't going to try to  
**[1:27:02-1:27:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:27:02):**  fight it you know i don't need Rogaine like every every male on my mother's side of the family  for probably five generations has lost their freaking hair yeah yeah like why bother with it  right so i wear a hat a lot all the time when i'm outside so i would go in to get my driver's  
**[1:27:24-1:27:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:27:24):**  license several years ago and you know i sat down in the chair and they're gonna take my picture  like take your hat off like i don't want to like no you gotta take your hat off law says you gotta  take your hat off okay fine took my head off took picture and then within six months i start seeing  
**[1:27:41-1:27:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:27:41):**  pictures of let's just say women from another religion being allowed to wear their religious  head coverings oh uh-huh uh-huh and then they're allowed to have their face covered with just a  little slit over their eyes hold on a minute that doesn't make any sense but what really makes me  
**[1:27:57-1:28:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:27:57):**  chuckle is there was a guy i think he was up in Topeka Kansas who listed his religion as  pasta farrian and went in and got his picture taken at the DMV wearing a pasta strainer on his  head and claimed religious exemption and i think there was actually a fight about it um fight about  
**[1:28:18-1:28:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:28:18):**  it with with the state of Kansas and the state of Kansas eventually had to concede okay pasta  foreignism is a valid religion you're a member of it you can wear your you can wear your colander  on your head in your in your DMV picture i might have some details messed up but it's at  
**[1:28:36-1:29:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:28:36):**  least a funny story oh that is that is a great story that's a great story and but but but  you know that kind of that kind of of broadness um you know i mean i i i am a i am a christian but  but i i really appreciate that the courts i appreciate when they interpret it broadly rather  
**[1:29:01-1:29:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:29:01):**  than narrowly i i think that's a that's a better that's a that's a it's a more liberty-minded  interpretation to deal with it broadly than narrowly oh for sure but then you kind of you  got to circle back to that 80-20 rule like who are the laws made for are they made for the majority  
**[1:29:21-1:29:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:29:21):**  or for the minority that 80-20 rule you brought up i i know it as the pareto principle and it  just seems to be applicable in so many things yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah  one of the questions that uh that one of my fans asked was they wanted to know about Venezuela and  
**[1:29:46-1:30:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:29:46):**  the move from Venezuela back to Virginia huh okay well wow all right i can i can go into that story  so my my dad um my dad flew uh flew in the navy in world war ii and uh he was a midwesterner grew  up in indiana and from from just very very young age you know pre-teen he developed an intense  
**[1:30:13-1:30:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:30:13):**  interest in developing countries and you know new frontier i mean you know admiral perry went  to the you know the pole and and um there was it was a you know he grew up in in the in the 20s and  a time of or in the 30s and the 20s and 30s time of discovery and um and so he just had this this  
**[1:30:35-1:30:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:30:35):**  idea uh i'd like to farm in a developing country not in the us uh he didn't hate to use the  u.s uh he didn't hate the u.s but but just he saw it as a new frontier a new place and um let's do  the new thing and so you know how do you how do you do that you know you're you're a midwestern  
**[1:30:53-1:31:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:30:53):**  kid no money uh no connections yeah how do you do this and so uh after after the war gi bill he got  his degree in economics uh went to middlebury uh college in vermont for six months studied spanish  hitchhiked hitchhiked from vermont to mexico spent six months there with a family uh boning  
**[1:31:12-1:31:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:31:12):**  up on his spanish came back sat for the foreign service civil service exam in spain and spanish  passed it the first time through and went as a bilingual accountant with texas oil company to  the early wildcat oil drilling ventures off the coast of venezuela this was the beginning of  
**[1:31:30-1:31:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:31:30):**  opec in the opening up this is you know 1947 48 49 and uh make a long story short he um he got there  and it was a very well-paying job and in seven years he was able to save up enough money to buy  a thousand acre a thousand acre property in the highlands of venezuela left the oil company went  
**[1:31:52-1:32:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:31:52):**  to the farm and our the goal was to to raise um chickens and dairy so meat chickens and dairy and  so we started with chickens they go a little quicker and meanwhile my older brother was born  than i was born and we're cooking you know and what happens is that um that that in venezuela  
**[1:32:16-1:32:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:32:16):**  those indigenous chickens that they had you know running around the village sewers and  squat pots and stuff they all had kind of a nasal drip a kind of a sub-therapeutic  pneumonia you know infectious kind of thing and they would drip snot out of their noses  
**[1:32:33-1:32:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:32:33):**  well you know this this is 1940 this is 1950s venezuela uh you know the way the food they  didn't have walmart and costco the way you got chicken if you wanted chicken for dinner you  waited until the chicken vendor came around so they'd have the banana vendor the pineapple  
**[1:32:48-1:33:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:32:48):**  vendor the papaya the you know all the different things the and and and you would you would you  know uh dicker with that guy uh and and buy his product and you did cook it for dinner  didn't have refrigeration and electricity and all that stuff and so um and so there was enough  
**[1:33:09-1:33:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:33:09):**  indigenous knowledge to know that if you wanted good chicken you rubbed your finger down the beak  and you looked at the nasal drip and the driest ones were the healthiest when you you know went  out back and butchered it and so of course the vendors were always looking for a cleaner chicken  
**[1:33:24-1:33:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:33:24):**  you know uh uh with with less less snot dripping out of its nostrils well our chickens were clean  and dad went and you know you know how these latin american markets are you know the farmers  bring their stuff to the village square and and i've never been there oh okay well well you've  
**[1:33:41-1:33:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:33:41):**  seen pictures you've seen pictures probably but i mean it's it's the same thing you see today and  you know pakistan and and latin american countries the farmers are in the in the you know the town  square and and yeah these people buying stuff and uh so very quickly dad cornered the market  
**[1:33:57-1:34:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:33:57):**  on the local market on chicken all the vendors would line up they'd buy his chicken because they  were they were dry well the other farmers the neighbor farmers they didn't ask him how do you  do this they just said we practiced witchcraft and voodoo because that's the only way you can  
**[1:34:12-1:34:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:34:12):**  have a clean chicken is witchcraft and voodoo so here we are we're rocking along 19 1959 uh  there's a there's a junta a junta you know a coup d'etat and um and uh uh rebellion uprising  and when you have anarchy in a culture what happens is there are there are a lot of scores  
**[1:34:35-1:34:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:34:35):**  that get settled during anarchy that would never get settled otherwise when there's a rule of law  and so we got caught up in that the the the the you know the the neighbor farmers oh this is a  way to you know to get back at these you know these uh these gringos here and so uh so basically  
**[1:34:52-1:35:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:34:52):**  we you know we fled the back doors and machine guns came in the front door lost everything they  they took they you know they took over the farm took everything we couldn't get any protection  whatsoever uh we spent an extra you know six or seven months there after that meeting with every  
**[1:35:05-1:35:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:35:05):**  you know the interior minister the commerce secretary the treasury secretary the agriculture  secretary nobody could give us any help uh and so the only thing to do was to to leave the country  we couldn't we couldn't get any protection and so and so we you know we came back to the us  
**[1:35:22-1:35:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:35:22):**  and dad was there 12 years he never got over it uh he loved the people loved the culture love and  you know what is there not to love when pineapples and bananas grow wild in your yard i mean you know  so so as a little as a little child i actually spoke spanish before english um you know in  
**[1:35:40-1:36:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:35:40):**  venezuela i was four when we left so i don't i don't remember the farm i do remember the turmoil  in in uh in caracas and el imon and a couple of the little uh villages where we went through as  we were fleeing and getting out of there um and uh and came back uh easter sunday 1961 dad was 39  
**[1:36:02-1:36:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:36:02):**  and um and ready to start over and i remember when i hit 39 i thought man if i lost everything  would i start over and dad dad really grew in my you know in my respect uh at that and he'd  already passed away he died very young at 66 i was only 31 when he passed away and but and i think a  
**[1:36:24-1:36:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:36:24):**  lot of a lot of it was the stress of of he never he never got over that you know that loss but he  was willing to restart here got this very you know worn out gullied rock pile it was cheap and and we  started over but he he never made a living from the farm he was he was an accountant like i said  
**[1:36:40-1:36:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:36:40):**  he was trained in economics mom was a school teacher health and phys ed school teacher  and so the the school teacher and the accountant uh got their money together off farm and paid the  mortgage so the by the time i was you know 14 years old um you know took us about 10 years  
**[1:36:58-1:37:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:36:58):**  of putting every dime into the mortgage the farm was paid for so now we have this you know this  big you know this this this platform to experiment to try things to do things and dad was very much  an experimenter got a hold of some andre voyzine stuff and went down this you know this grass this  
**[1:37:16-1:37:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:37:16):**  rotational grazing grass path early on mobile infrastructure and the rest is the rest is history  but that's the yeah that's the venezuela story and uh you know now our family looking back  looking back at that it was extremely tragic uh at the time but now looking back we realized  
**[1:37:36-1:37:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:37:36):**  what a blessing it was because if we had stayed we'd have probably been very successful let's  assume we'd have been successful and built a pretty sizable deal going on and and and and  and and then you know nobody wants to be in venezuela now um and so and so you know we're  
**[1:37:56-1:38:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:37:56):**  now we now look back at that tragedy as a blessing that it protected got us out got us out early  so we could start over and build something here that would that could last and not be subject to  the you know to the machinations of a of a junta okay thanks thanks for telling that story i don't  
**[1:38:18-1:38:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:38:18):**  think it's been i don't think i've heard most of that anywhere else and you mentioned that the  neighbors said you're practicing voodoo and witchcraft on your chest yeah and that brings  to mind that several university professors tenured university professors in the plains  
**[1:38:39-1:38:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:38:39):**  have said that exact thing about quote rotation grazing managing intensive grazing or doing  anything other than just set stock grazing they say oh that that's voodoo crap that doesn't work  and okay there's a reason why you've been at university for 25 years and haven't put out a  
**[1:38:58-1:39:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:38:58):**  meaningful paper that matters anything that wasn't sponsored by by a chemical company right right  so i i guess part of the reason i knew some of that that you know you guys had to fleet that  your family had to flee venezuela because of you know civil and governmental unrest right  
**[1:39:18-1:39:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:39:18):**  and that's a great point that you know when that anarchy starts to set in and the rule of law  breaks down people want to try to settle scores because there's nobody watching right right and i  and i and i realized that you know you're very young when you left but as a student of history  
**[1:39:37-1:40:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:39:37):**  are we are we heading down the same path in this country uh yes i i think i think we are now what's  important to understand is that before anarchy you have tyranny and and so so what happens is you get  you get more and more i mean this is the path of rome right this is what rome and so so you you  
**[1:40:01-1:40:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:40:01):**  have you have increasing increasing government government i'll just say government intervention  uh whether it's you know regulations or or manipulation or uh censorship or whatever but  but but you you have increasing government government uh control and activity in in the  
**[1:40:18-1:40:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:40:18):**  society and so you move toward tyranny more and more and more until finally that that tyranny  that tyranny just just falls of its own um either ineptness or or people get tired of it or uh  you know black markets whatever it eventually it collapses or or it or it just gets overrun i mean  
**[1:40:42-1:41:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:40:42):**  in rome's case you know it was the huns i mean they they collapsed internally and then were  and then were weakened and the huns came in but um you know yeah that that cycle of history you  know the the bondage to courage courage to you know courage to valor valor to liberty liberty to  
**[1:41:02-1:41:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:41:02):**  wealth wealth to lethargy lethargy to you know to um you know to uh victimhood and uh and victimhood  to you know back to bondage you know that basic cycle has played out over and over and over  throughout history and and i think that we do ourselves as americans a great injustice look i  
**[1:41:24-1:41:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:41:24):**  i believe in american exceptionalism i absolutely believe in american exceptionalism this is this is  there's no you don't have to travel much in the world i've traveled to i don't know what  20 different countries uh doing seminars and things around the world and it's it's profound  
**[1:41:39-1:42:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:41:39):**  uh to to get to go to a country and and people are equally whatever upset about things um  but they don't have a bill of rights you know they don't have a freedom of speech bill over  they don't have a and and uh and so i i i do is our country perfect absolutely not of course it's  
**[1:42:01-1:42:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:42:01):**  not but but i do believe in that this is a this was an experiment it was an experiment but very  wise uh wise um um just wise wise people that that birthed it and uh and i think we do ourselves  a disservice i think oh well we're americans that'll never happen to us you know we'll never  
**[1:42:25-1:42:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:42:25):**  collapse well you know we'll never get taken over and i think that's uh that's foolishness uh i i  think the fact that it's happened over and over and over throughout history uh we are absolutely  um as as um as vulnerable as vulnerable to to we're as vulnerable to the to the principles of of  
**[1:42:52-1:43:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:42:52):**  civilizational cycles as any civilization in history whether it's whether it's famine  disease economic collapse civil disorder moral moral uh debauchery and and chaos uh you know  we we are as susceptible as anyone else you know gravity gravity is everywhere and nobody ever  
**[1:43:19-1:43:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:43:19):**  threw a ball so high that it didn't come down and same with same with us okay all right  okay i mean there's nothing in there i can disagree with i think the question is the big  question is time the big question is time for me absolutely answer that one no and nobody can  
**[1:43:41-1:43:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:43:41):**  actually while it's happening we're not going to realize that it's begun until it's all just done  yeah yeah and  i'm not the hero of that story i don't think you are either you know we're just npc's watching it  
**[1:43:55-1:44:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:43:55):**  all play out from the sidelines yeah you're exactly right and so so what that means is  that i i you know i watch what's going on but i don't go to you know to marches and i don't  you know i don't carry i don't have time i'm too busy doing stuff and so so if you and i wanted to  
**[1:44:14-1:44:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:44:14):**  make a list um if you and i wanted to make a list of stuff that we're we're angry and frustrated  about we could make a pretty decent list all right so i encourage people make the list make the list  all right here's what i'm angry and frustrated about but now instead of just being angry and  
**[1:44:31-1:44:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:44:31):**  frustrated let's invert that let's flip it on its head and instead of just feeding this all this  negative emotion let's flip it on its head and build an arc let's build a light bulb and let's  let's build a light tower so so that when society when society becomes hopeless and helpless we can  
**[1:44:51-1:45:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:44:51):**  provide hope and help at that time and and suddenly that takes all that negative energy  flips it to positive and we actually build build hope and help into a dysfunctional culture little  little you know little arcs little oases and um and that that's what that's what i'm devoting  
**[1:45:14-1:45:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:45:14):**  myself to and that's why i'm encouraging other people so that we have these you know we have  these um you know these neighborhoods these communities uh of people that that are that are  resilient and can flourish even in a downtime yes 100 i think that's the best thing  
**[1:45:37-1:45:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:45:37):**  that anybody can do you know in the in the challenging times we're in you know the post  covid era economic unstability people are moving around the globe you know there's displacement  from the ukraine war there's coming climate displacement there's people that are you know  
**[1:45:55-1:46:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:45:55):**  like we talked about earlier there's big money leaving the cities leaving the coasts  because they're not required to be in the office five days anymore but like you know there's a lot  of people that can telecommute you know if five if three years ago you told me that there would be  
**[1:46:09-1:46:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:46:09):**  software engineers that live in the mountains and commute to work on starlink i would say what's  starlink you know yeah if if you've been hiding under a rock starlink is like you know elon musk  has launched several thousand satellites that link with lasers to provide internet from outer  
**[1:46:26-1:46:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:46:26):**  freaking space yeah and enabling people to go up and live in places where they couldn't and do it  couldn't and do jobs that previously they were tied to a desk yeah that's right and it's it's  very it's a very interesting time we're we're getting into and so something that you mentioned  
**[1:46:48-1:47:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:46:48):**  earlier is the the european model of tenancy of land tenancy where the people that own land they  own it as a defensive measure against inflation and the people without the money are managing the  land as a wealth accumulation offensive measure can you maybe drill down into that a little bit  
**[1:47:07-1:47:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:47:07):**  we'll try to explore that concept a little bit yeah i i i can um so oh i i guess the direction  that we could go with that is you know if we're talking about a a shared ownership model  who is accountable then for the stewardship of that resource  
**[1:47:31-1:47:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:47:31):**  and how do we avoid a tragedy of the commons as we move towards a you know a shared ownership  model or more of a tenant you know a landowner tenant type relationship and let me let me let  me kind of you know just give you some background where i'm at like i own most i own a portion of  
**[1:47:50-1:48:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:47:50):**  the ranch i lease the rest of it from the family partnership my dad's the trustee and he basically  lets me do whatever i want i also manage it and i'm the labor so i have i'm in the unique i'm in  it not the unique i'm in a great position that you know if labor needs something for management  
**[1:48:06-1:48:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:48:06):**  i don't have to write a report and justify it on a budget line item and if ownership wants something  wants labor to do something weird i've already talked myself into doing it i don't have to you  know talk the manager into doing it that has to talk the labor unit into doing it and that kind  
**[1:48:22-1:48:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:48:22):**  of ties into my earlier point that you know a lot of the a lot of the people that are involved in  commodity production farming now they're tenants and unless we have long-term shared management  goals for our land for ecological goals for our land shared between ownership and management  
**[1:48:44-1:49:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:48:44):**  then there's a big disconnect between those two layers and getting practices implemented that will  actually you know preserve the ecological bounty of the land or preserve the land base for future  generations because like i talked about you know that landowner he wants his rent check he wants  
**[1:49:03-1:49:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:49:03):**  his crops check because to him you know that's family land and he depends on that income every  year that you know whatever the crp payment yeah yeah and i'm i'm starting to push to push time  here just so you know i need to i've got a one o'clock i've got a one o'clock phone call so so  
**[1:49:26-1:49:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:49:26):**  yeah the the what i'm what i'm describing the european model is this tendency is it's a long  it's called tenurage tenures it's long-term tenurage and so for example you know king charles  doesn't farm all of his land one of my one of my most interesting weeks ever i spent a week  
**[1:49:48-1:50:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:49:48):**  in in in the united kingdom with a with a lord a lord and a lady their their nobility actually  and they they had they owned about 10 000 acres which is pretty big in in united kingdom  england and they had about 130 farm tenants he showed me his spreadsheet you know this guy here  
**[1:50:13-1:50:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:50:13):**  is at 37 years this guy here is at 67 this guy here is at 23 this guy here is at 89 they're  they're called 99 year 99 year tenrages and they're they're inheritable so 99 years is a long time  so so you you have this tendency and so they actually have tenancy boards and so the landowner  
**[1:50:33-1:50:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:50:33):**  cannot increase uh they're a little bit like like rent boards in our country uh where a landlord  can't increase the rent but so much i'm sure there's all sorts of formulas but this actually  was created as part of uh the magna carta goes back that far where they said you know what we're  
**[1:50:53-1:51:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:50:53):**  gonna let royalty we're gonna get let nobles own the land but you're gonna have to but but you  can't just raise the rent and send a peasant off of it and and so so there is a there's a very  uh political uh as you can imagine you know this is not a perfect system but it's a perfect system  
**[1:51:12-1:51:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:51:12):**  and don't anybody think i'm mentioning a perfect system i'm just saying that that it appears we are  heading toward a and i thought allen nation when he first told me that uh that we were heading to  that i thought he was you know smoking smoking something funny until until our our in our largest  
**[1:51:32-1:51:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:51:32):**  environmental group in virginia the um the piedmont environmental council which is our largest  kind of in-state environmental group held a conference on tenurage and i had never heard that  used here but it was completely about they asked me to come and speak but um it it i'd never heard  
**[1:51:53-1:52:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:51:53):**  that used here but the whole idea is you have all as you mentioned a brand you have all this money  moving out of the city they're buying pieces of land you know the i mean uh land ownership is in  american's dna so you know i'm wealthy so i'm buying land bill gates is buying land right  
**[1:52:08-1:52:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:52:08):**  all right so so so this person comes out and buys this you know this this country estate they don't  know anything about farming and so um and so what they do is they just hire some neighbor farmer to  come and you know and bush hog it twice a year just to keep it open and it actually comes out  
**[1:52:25-1:52:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:52:25):**  of production in many cases and so the whole goal of this was not to be a good example of this but  and so the whole goal of this was noble it was about how do we take these these country these  country estates owned by rich people and help them to understand that production agriculture  
**[1:52:46-1:53:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:52:46):**  can build soil and can actually be better than just bush hogging it twice a year and uh and it  was it was really uh uh quite amazing but it was it was very interesting to go to get some of the  the um the the paperwork agreements behind some of these very very long term you know long-term  
**[1:53:10-1:53:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:53:10):**  relationships um uh i'll close i'll just mention i had a friend that went to china and he did a  a pastured livestock farm in china and in china it is communist china you can't own land in china  but you can rent it and so uh he rented a thousand acres in china for 50 years so a thousand acres  
**[1:53:35-1:53:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:53:35):**  he rented it for 50 years for 50 a year now now that doesn't sound like too bad a deal for me  uh because a lot of our capital is tied up in the land and this allowed him to not tie his capital  up into land but to actually you know uh um actually you know tie it up in things that  
**[1:53:58-1:54:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:53:58):**  actually were uh you know turn turn a return on investment i had another another uh friend went to  uh outer mongolia in mongolia and uh and they actually uh they actually sent three farmers over  here uh to see me and i visited with them these three mongolian farmers i said you know mongolia  
**[1:54:19-1:54:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:54:19):**  you can't own land either i said so so if i came to mongolia and wanted to start a farm what would  i do they said well you come to the village elders and you present your plan and if we're you know  we're interested in it then we'll say okay you can go over there and and do your thing over you know  
**[1:54:33-1:54:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:54:33):**  we'll we'll tell you and um and and then if we like it you can just stay there and if you continue  to do a god job and you're uh beneficial to the community you can stay there you know your whole  life and your family's life and that's how you kind of carve out a place i said so so how much  
**[1:54:50-1:55:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:54:50):**  would it cost me to how much would it cost me to do this and they said uh about 25 cents an acre  per year 25 cents an acre per year so you know i've had experience in places being at places  where the the this american ideal of of i have to own my property control my property live on my  
**[1:55:14-1:55:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:55:14):**  property there's a lot of other ways to skin that cat and um and i just think that we limit ourselves  as farmers if the only way we see forward for our farm is to actually own the land and and be  you know a sole whatever sole controller uh that there are collaborative there are shared  
**[1:55:36-1:55:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:55:36):**  expectations i mean we lease several properties we sit down and we we create you know shared  objectives and so that we go into it with very clear written expectations about what about  what's going to happen on that land and those are shared and um and and so i think i think uh  
**[1:55:58-1:56:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:55:58):**  we can do a lot more if we're not afraid to communicate be transparent and and develop  partners that share that share expectations and objective perfect and i i know you said you had  to go we're getting very very close um so let's close it out tell people where they can find you  
**[1:56:18-1:56:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:56:18):**  where they can buy their books where they can get in contact and where they can send you hate mail  i can get my email address for the hate mail i don't care yeah uh so yeah so so uh  every i don't have a personal website uh everything comes through polyface farm so our website has  
**[1:56:35-1:57:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:56:35):**  you know my speaking schedule our you know food swag uh um seminars that we're doing information  whatever books um it's polyface farms p-o-l-y-f-a-c-e polyface farms uh uh dot com and so just jump on  the website you can contact us you can uh visit that it's a very comprehensive website lots of  
**[1:57:00-1:57:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:57:00):**  information on there and we welcome you to come and come and enjoy it awesome joel i really  appreciate your time today it's been a lot of fun and uh i guess i'll go ahead and let you go  because uh i'd hate to make you late for your next appointment yeah yeah thank you so much it's been  
**[1:57:17-1:57:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/100-Joel-Salatin-Skewing-the-Market-e1u535r#t=1:57:17):**  a real delight and pleasure um come see us i'll try to do that next time out in virginia but  have a good day yeah you too thank you  