---
title: 74 Maggie And Jeremiah Eubank Unrealistic Stakes
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2022-07-25)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:00:00):**  Hello and welcome back. This episode of the podcast has been sponsored by our generous patrons over on patreon.com  forward slash red hills rancher check the show notes for a link this week a couple of my friends joined me to talk about what  It's like raising pastured hogs in Texas Hill Country around a feral hog population  
**[0:00:16-0:00:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:00:16):**  We talked about dogs and predation on sheep and their experience with farmers markets and managing old world bluestem grasses  So sit back and enjoy episode 74 with Maggie and Jeremiah Eubank from pure pastures, Texas  All right, gotta pay some bills if you haven't heard about anchor by Spotify  
**[0:00:32-0:00:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:00:32):**  It's the easiest way to make a podcast with everything you need all in one place  Let me explain  Anchor has all the tools that allow you to record and edit your podcast right from your phone or your computer  
**[0:00:43-0:01:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:00:43):**  When hosting on anchor you can distribute your podcast on listening platforms such as Spotify Apple podcast Google and more and it's super easy  It's everything you need to make a podcast in one place and best of all anchor is totally free  Download the anchor app or go to anchor FM to get started today  
**[0:01:13-0:01:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:01:13):**  So with us we've got Jeremiah and Maggie Eubank from pure pastures, Texas welcome to ranching reboot guys  Hi, thanks for having us  Oh  
**[0:01:24-0:01:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:01:24):**  Well, thanks for doing this. I appreciate both of you being here  So let's start off. Let's uh, why don't you tell us just a little bit about yourselves and where you're where y'all are at?  So we are in Canyon Lake, Texas, which is about an hour north of San Antonio  
**[0:01:41-0:01:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:01:41):**  Right in the middle of the hill country  Arguably the most beautiful place in Texas, but also one of the harshest  Environments in Texas I would say  
**[0:01:52-0:02:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:01:52):**  We manage a 2000 acre ranch in the in Canyon Lake that is we produce  grass-fed beef grass-fed and finished beef and lamb and then pasture-raised pork and eggs and  We have two boys that  
**[0:02:12-0:02:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:02:12):**  You know eat everything. So that's why we got to raise everything  They're eating us out of house and home. I imagine the guy sitting to your right has anything to do with that?  No, I mean when people come to our store and they ask me like I have a family of six  
**[0:02:27-0:02:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:02:27):**  Do I need two packages of bratwurst?  It's like I don't know I have a family of four and I have to cook a pack of for each of us because they like  barbarians  
**[0:02:37-0:02:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:02:37):**  No idea how much how much meat real people eat or regular people I guess  Yeah, well, how long will a half last me? I don't know. I kind of know how long it lasts me  I don't know about you. Yeah, exactly  
**[0:02:53-0:03:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:02:53):**  So how long have you guys been there  We've been here on this ranch for it'll be three years in October  And we've been doing kind of direct market stuff since 2015  
**[0:03:06-0:03:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:03:06):**  How did your direct why did your direct market stuff start and how did it start so we started  We actually started on a little place. It's just about ten acres. It's about our south of here  and we started with pigs and we just kind of want to raise some for ourselves and then  
**[0:03:23-0:03:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:03:23):**  You know pigs are pigs and you know, there's a reason we have a wild wild pig problem, you know  Because they make more of them fast. And so we wound up with a lot of  babies and started selling them to friends and  
**[0:03:39-0:03:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:03:39):**  and other folks and you know kind of went the farmers market route and  Started trying to make a business out of that I guess and grow it and  We were releasing some property across the road and place  
**[0:03:54-0:04:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:03:54):**  place a little further away run a few cows and then  We got the opportunity to come up here and take over the ranch  management of this ranch and did that in 2019  
**[0:04:07-0:04:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:04:07):**  Very cool  We were both working oil field jobs when we very first started  And then it was kind of like, oh you're raising pigs  
**[0:04:17-0:04:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:04:17):**  We would like a pig. Can you raise one for us? And it's like sure and it's like, oh now my friends want a pig  Can you do that? And it's like, yeah, sure. And then I got fired from the oil field. So  it kind of that's I would say that's really when like the retail side of it  
**[0:04:31-0:04:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:04:31):**  kicked off because there was somebody that had time to do it like we tried to make it into a real thing  Okay, so let's turn back the clock. So Jeremiah, where were you from and and  What was your education like up to the point where you met Maggie, I guess  
**[0:04:49-0:05:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:04:49):**  So nothing before me matters  She reminds me of that all the time. So you can leave out the details that really don't matter  I get you in trouble. Yeah. Yeah. I grew up in Millsap, Texas, basically spent my whole childhood there  
**[0:05:08-0:05:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:05:08):**  Little small school graduated like 50 in our class, I think  And then I went to went to school at Tarleton State in Stephenville. That's that's where I met Maggie  It all did you grow up in all started up. Did you grow up in town or out on land? No, we had we were rural. I mean, we had a little place there and  
**[0:05:31-0:05:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:05:31):**  We had a little place there and we had a little place there and  Dad ran a few cows. It's like a little 30-40 acre place  Ran a few cows just kind of you know, country kid  
**[0:05:48-0:06:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:05:48):**  My granddad was a barber in in Weatherford, Texas, just you know, kind of next door to us there and he always ran a bunch of cows and  I've made the correlation that we're kind of doing a lot of the same things he did because he had the barbershop and then in the in the front window of his barbershop  He had a sign there that said, you know, beef halves and holes for sale and and he had a farm where he raised  
**[0:06:20-0:06:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:06:20):**  Some cows and fed out a few calves every year and and had a freezer there in the back of the barbershop where he sold all that beef. And so we're kind of, you know, kind of trying to get back to that same idea.  Interesting business model come in. Yeah, haircut, get a shave couple pounds of burger for dinner that night.  I dig it. He was way ahead of his time. It worked pretty well for him. And you know, those are those are all cash business. So it's a, you know, not a bad thing. Yes. Yes. So Maggie, how about you, how did you get to Tarleton State University?  
**[0:07:00-0:07:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:07:00):**  I am originally from a little tiny town called San Antonio, Texas.  Yeah, yeah. Um, I grew up on a sprawling quarter acre corner lot in the middle of town. I'm a city kid, but my high school was a magnet school for FFA. And I had always wanted to be a vet when I grew up.  So I went into FFA. My, my mom's family is rural, they live out and kind of towards East Texas, they raised quarter horses and, you know, lived on land and stuff like that.  
**[0:07:38-0:08:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:07:38):**  So I got into FFA and got very involved and interested in agriculture.  And then went to Tarleton from there, figured out pretty quick that I'm not doctor material.  But I did pursue a degree in agriculture. So it kind of led me led me to this, I didn't, I didn't realize at the time that all of the FFA contests that I was doing were pretty much exactly what I would be doing as a job.  
**[0:08:07-0:08:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:08:07):**  I mean, I did sales and marketing contests and things like that in FFA. So it's pretty neat.  To see that come to fruition, my ag teachers are still stunned that of all the kids that go through the program, I'm the one that's still doing it.  Interesting. All right. I'd never really thought about that. Like, and this is, I guess, part of my paradigm. 4-H around here was, was probably a little bit different.  
**[0:08:38-0:09:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:08:38):**  And it was the show cattle world that I'm kind of talking about. And that never had any appeal to me.  I didn't understand that, like, we're going to take one out of the herd and really pamper them and really fluff them up and really make them look good.  And that's going to represent what's out in the pasture. That's not how that works. I don't think that's how that works.  
**[0:09:04-0:09:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:09:04):**  Maybe that was me and I never really understood FFA. But those are great points that a lot of what you learn in there, you're still carrying over to running your direct consumer business.  That's kind of the first time I've heard that. And hopefully it won't be the last.  Well, and I think it's different because I think it being an urban FFA chapter had a lot to do with it. You know, like we had a 40 acre farm behind my high school where everybody kept their animal projects.  
**[0:09:37-0:10:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:09:37):**  So we didn't have to keep them at our house. We had it's one of the biggest ag programs in the state. And now they have when I was in high school, I cut meat at my high school for three years.  So we had a butcher shop at the school, which there's only three in Texas that have that.  There were at that time. I don't even know if there's still three. We didn't harvest anything there. It was all harvested at the Excel plant that used to be in San Antonio. But you could break down a primal.  
**[0:10:08-0:10:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:10:08):**  Yes. Yeah. We got whole carcasses in and we broke them down, packaged them and everything like that.  But since everything was there, the focus wasn't and we weren't all rural kids, the focus we had show teams and we all showed animals and everything like that. But they had a large focus on  their career development events in FFA and leadership development events in FFA. And so they always we always had a big showing at contests for those kind of things, which is  
**[0:10:37-0:10:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:10:37):**  at the time, you know, I was kind of just doing it to get out of school because then I got to be gone all the time because I was competing.  But it really is. I mean, it's exactly what I'm doing now.  Interesting. Very interesting.  
**[0:10:56-0:11:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:10:56):**  What about you, Jeremiah?  As far as that, and yeah, I showed a little bit high school to an FFA to we did I showed pigs, we we just we were doing I was doing a bunch of other stuff. I played sports and everything. So we didn't get too wrapped up into the like the show cattle deal. And  I don't think my dad was crazy about throwing a bunch of money at it. Pigs were about as far as he wanted to go. So and I think that's that's probably a little bit the reason we actually got into pigs is because we both had a little bit of experience with them originally.  
**[0:11:32-0:12:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:11:32):**  And it was it was an easy thing to do when we started out that, you know, we had enough experience and and a small enough land base that it was like, well, you know, that's kind of about the only thing we can do.  And it was like, well, you know, it's kind of about the only thing we can efficiently run, you know,  why in Texas, you can get good beef. I mean, everybody does beef in Texas, right? It's pretty easy to find good beef. No one, especially at that time, was doing pork.  
**[0:12:02-0:12:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:12:02):**  Pastured pork.  Are a lot more people doing pastured pork now?  It seems like there I don't know if there's more people doing it now, or we just know more people that are doing it now.  
**[0:12:14-0:12:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:12:14):**  But it seems like there are more people getting into it.  I think you're starting to see especially with the COVID stuff and  not now you're gonna have to put that tag warning thing.  
**[0:12:28-0:12:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:12:28):**  I don't do that. Spotify does that for me. Yeah, well, sorry. But but with that, I think we started seeing a lot more  homesteader top interest in those those animals and stuff and kind of everybody, you know, with a big enough backyard thinking they might need to put something back there that that they have control.  So  
**[0:12:51-0:13:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:12:51):**  I wonder that I'm seeing the same thing to it. I'm not saying that it's a bad thing.  I don't think it is either. I'm just wondering how many wrecks we're going to have later down the line with things like that.  There's I mean, I see a fair amount of people were in a bunch of pig groups, Texas pig groups and on Facebook, and there's always people that got pigs that can't have pigs now or they don't want pigs now or, you know, a lot of people that I think  
**[0:13:20-0:13:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:13:20):**  had a jaded view of what it's like to produce your own food and just kind of went in with both be because everybody felt like they needed to it was scary.  But it's just like, you know, buying a bunny at Easter once that bunny grows up. It's not as fun or cute. And so either let it go or find somebody to buy it.  They're all animals are cute when they're really little. The problem is they grow up to be big things.  
**[0:13:47-0:14:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:13:47):**  You know, everybody loves puppies, but not everybody loves to deal with the 14 year old dog with hip problems.  Right, right. And pigs are hilarious until they're tearing up your whole yard. And, you know, they're a lot of labor.  For sure, a lot of management labor and it can go south really quick.  
**[0:14:08-0:14:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:14:08):**  So, okay, so we're talking about pigs and management and, you know, things that can go wrong.  Feral pig population. Is there a large feral pig population near where you guys are and how does that affect your pig management practices?  Yes, so there is a pretty good population here and where we're at on the ranch, we've kind of got where we keep all the pigs is in a separate pasture from everything else.  
**[0:14:39-0:15:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:14:39):**  So, like I said, it's a 2000 acre ranch. The pigs are kept on about 60 acres of it that's fenced off separately.  And it's all high fenced and it's all it's really tight fence. So we've got control over pretty much good control over what comes in and out of here.  So, aside from a couple of water gaps here and there that they might be able to get through, we're able to keep all the pigs, you know, all the feral stuff out of here.  
**[0:15:14-0:15:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:15:14):**  Is that more of a concern than your stuff leaving?  Yes. Yeah. So we're able to manage all of ours with electric fence.  We've got paddocks set up with just two hot wires that are set at, you know, eight and 18 inches, I think.  
**[0:15:33-0:15:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:15:33):**  And it does a good job of keeping them all in. Pigs are very smart and they know where that wire is at and what they can do and what they can't.  And ours know where their feet is and where it isn't. Like if they get out, they're going to get back in because they know that somebody is going to come feed them.  That's always a good point. That's always a good thing.  
**[0:15:53-0:16:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:15:53):**  Yeah. Since we've been up here, we've only had maybe, I think, three wild pigs get in here. So they came in, but they didn't leave.  Is it pretty easy to tell when you got one loose?  Oh, yeah. For sure. They just, they act totally different. And wild pigs are a little bit different.  
**[0:16:17-0:16:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:16:17):**  They act totally different. And while a lot of our pigs are black, there's just definitely a different build to them too.  The feral stuff down here just looks skinny and wild and about half wormy.  We had some get loose up here, gosh, probably close to 20 years ago. Maybe a little bit more than that.  
**[0:16:40-0:17:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:16:40):**  When I came back in 2006, 2008, I think it was about 2008, the state decided, okay, yes, we have a pig problem in Kansas.  And the way they dealt with it is they didn't allow hunting.  They got a bunch of money funneled around through Kansas Department of Health and Environment through their kind of veterinary services.  
**[0:17:05-0:17:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:17:05):**  They got with USDA Wildlife Services. They hired a helicopter and these guys shot hogs out of a helicopter down here.  There were several days where they shot well over 300. And every carcass had to be retrieved, tagged, and blood sampled.  And then they hauled it off to a disposal pit. It took them four years, first couple years of trapping, then three good hard years of flying  
**[0:17:33-0:18:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:17:33):**  to get the population managed. They've pretty much got them hunted out of our area and no more coming up into Oklahoma.  Once they get established, it's awful, awful hard to get rid of them.  Yeah. And I know that no hunting deal is kind of tricky there because the hunting is part of the reason there's so many of them.  
**[0:18:00-0:18:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:18:00):**  And it's become a pretty big business here. And even the helicopter hunt, it's nothing. It takes us to go pay somebody to sit in a helicopter for an hour and go shoot pigs out of it.  I know it doesn't do a damn bit of good, but I kind of want to go do it because it looks like a lot of fun.  Yeah, it does. And it's a good cause.  
**[0:18:19-0:18:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:18:19):**  But yeah, hunting even pigs here is a big business. And I know there's plenty of those hogs, and probably not as much as there used to be,  but I'm sure in the beginning that's what led to the proliferation of them, was them getting moved around to be hunted.  Even if they say it's an invasive animal, yeah, you can hunt them and want to get rid of them, there's going to be breeders that are like,  
**[0:18:52-0:19:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:18:52):**  man, I'm making thousands and thousands of dollars a year, people paying me to come down and hunt these hogs. Why would I ever want them to go away?  Yeah, exactly. I've heard that from landowners before.  And I think that's why if you have a pig problem, you'll continue to have that pig problem until that policy is changed.  
**[0:19:13-0:19:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:19:13):**  Now, we don't need to talk about how I feel about government policies, but sometimes there's one that comes down that actually does what it's intended to do.  And those are pretty rare.  Extremely.  
**[0:19:27-0:19:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:19:27):**  Yeah, I think we're probably in alignment on those ideas there.  So, you went from primarily pig operation coming out of college to the diversified acreage that you're on now.  So, beef, pork, lamb, eggs, let's talk about some of that.  
**[0:19:47-0:20:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:19:47):**  Yeah, when we were still at our other place, but we had gotten, we leased our neighbor's place across the street.  He had some yard cows to keep his ag exemption, but he was an old man.  Tax cows.  
**[0:20:05-0:20:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:20:05):**  Yeah, tax cows. So, we bought his tax cows and then still managed them over there and brought them over because we had 10 acres, but it was probably nine and a half acres of trees.  So, not great for cattle, which is another reason why pigs were good. And we had chickens and ducks at the time too. So, we were doing pork and eggs over there.  But so, we had cattle across the street and then we had pretty much topped out our production on the acreage that we had.  
**[0:20:36-0:21:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:20:36):**  So, we had been looking around for a place to buy or lease, which we didn't have the right last name to lease anywhere around there.  It's a very tight knit family community. And even if somebody hated their uncle, if he had cows and needed a place to put them, they were going to let him lease it before they did you.  I've heard that music before.  
**[0:21:01-0:21:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:21:01):**  Yeah, we were down near the Eagleford Shale, so the price of land was insane because it was just, it was a boom.  So, we found a place that was about 45 acres that was ridiculously priced low. So, we pounced on it and then found out why it was priced low, because it had a tax lien on it.  But that was okay because we were going to try to do it with an FSA loan, so it was going to take a long time anyway.  
**[0:21:30-0:21:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:21:30):**  So, everybody agreed to it, whatever, and we asked them if we could start, if we could lease it from them until the sale went through.  So, when we got that extra acreage, we decided to get into lamb and more into beef.  We, kind of the same thing with pork, we are lamb eaters, we love lamb. There's not a lot of good lamb available. And the majority of people  
**[0:21:57-0:22:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:21:57):**  the majority of Americans have only had mutton from Australia. You know, they get it at Costco, it's gamey.  And I don't hate that lamb, that was the lamb that we were eating, but that's the strongly flavored gamey lamb and  It tastes like lanolin.  
**[0:22:14-0:22:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:22:14):**  It does. And when I tell people that, like most people don't even know that there's hair sheep and wool sheep, because why would they? They just know that there's lamb.  They don't know what mutton is most of the time.  Okay, well for those of us that don't know, what is the difference between...  
**[0:22:32-0:22:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:22:32):**  Mutton is a sheep that is over a year old. It's an older animal.  So, we had a anniversary party out here at the store not too long ago and someone asked me what the difference between a sheep and a lamb was, like how they were different.  And I was like, well, they're not. A lamb is just less than a year old.  
**[0:22:54-0:23:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:22:54):**  But, so we got into lamb, mainly so that we could have lamb because we liked to eat it, but also because there was a market opportunity. There were not, there wasn't anyone in our area doing lamb. There weren't many.  And what I liked about the lamb deal too, running the numbers on it, it's a lot more viable to be an animal that you just take to the sale barn and can make money that way.  And you don't have to direct market. Your margins are a little bit better versus cattle.  
**[0:23:31-0:23:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:23:31):**  So the numbers just work out a little better.  You have a place where you can take lambs, like feeder lambs and sell them?  Oh yeah. There's quite a few sale barns around here that have pretty strong land markets. I mean...  
**[0:23:47-0:24:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:23:47):**  The hill country is sheep and goat country. West Texas is big sheep and goat country, but the hill country is pretty big in it.  We're only three hours, I think, two and a half, three hours from San Angelo, which is the biggest market in the country.  I've been through the hill country and been through San Antonio and there aren't enough goats in the universe to make a difference.  
**[0:24:15-0:24:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:24:15):**  No, no, no, there's not. That's for sure.  That's for sure. So, but yeah, that's, you know, Jeremiah was looking at it from that aspect. I was looking at it as, you know, it's pretty niche product at this point.  And by then we were doing the, we had been doing the New Braunfels farmers market for a while, which has a large, I mean, New Braunfels has a large German population and they are lamb eaters.  
**[0:24:38-0:24:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:24:38):**  And then by that time we had just gotten into the Pearl, which was, I would say probably the biggest farmers market in San Antonio.  And with a clientele that can afford a niche product. That's the nicest way I can think of saying that.  I think I'm picking up what you're putting down.  
**[0:24:58-0:25:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:24:58):**  Yeah. So, it was kind of a no brainer for us to start it. Our processor said that they could handle it and that they had processed sheep and lamb before. So we just went ahead with it.  Good deal. Good deal. So let's talk about your cows. What kind of cows you all got?  We have a mix of, we've got some Corianis. I don't know that we're as fond of them as you are.  
**[0:25:31-0:25:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:25:31):**  And we're transitioning more toward the red Angus stuff.  And we've run some South Pole bulls on them and I just turned out a couple of more red Angus bulls today too.  And just commercial stuff, no registered or anything.  
**[0:25:50-0:26:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:25:50):**  So you're coming over the top of your Coriantes with red Angus bulls?  Well, they had been South Pole over the top. And yeah, now it'll be red Angus.  How do you feel about those South Pole Coriante calves?  
**[0:26:05-0:26:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:26:05):**  I feel better about them than I do the full Coriante cows.  Well, that one's pretty fair.  We've got our first set of calves out of Coriante South Pole heifers on the ground now.  
**[0:26:30-0:26:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:26:30):**  And there's not a whole bunch of them. It's just a handful. They're pretty good.  I think they're going to make pretty good mamas.  I've not been impressed with the steer. Like they haven't added a whole lot of beefiness to the steers.  
**[0:26:51-0:27:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:26:51):**  They're still kind of framey and just thin compared to a straight Angus or something like that.  I understand what you're saying. I understand what you're saying.  I think that if you're going to look at like five heifer calves that are similar mamas and the same dad, you'll see probably two that you like and three that you don't.  
**[0:27:22-0:27:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:27:22):**  And it might not make sense what the cow that came out of. And I think that's just some of the genetics that we're dealing with in the Coriantes.  Yeah. It's so varied in there. And the ones we had were decent mamas and stuff.  The thing we get into, and I've made this comment to a bunch of people that I've talked to,  
**[0:27:42-0:28:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:27:42):**  what do they talk about? And this goes not for just Coriantes, but any of these smaller frame cattle and all the people that espouse, you've got to get these super small cattle and all this stuff and you can run so many more of them.  That makes sense for a cow-calf guy that's going to go sell 400 pound calves.  That doesn't make sense to somebody selling rib-eyes.  
**[0:28:08-0:28:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:28:08):**  Especially in Texas.  Because nobody in Texas wants to buy a rib-eye that's this big around.  We want big two pound rib-eyes.  
**[0:28:20-0:28:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:28:20):**  Everything's got to be bigger in Texas.  Exactly. Exactly.  So that's where I think that having those moderate sized cattle are really important.  
**[0:28:33-0:28:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:28:33):**  The 700 pound cow ain't going to cut it.  I always explain it to people when they like people in the store when they ask us what kind of cattle we run.  I tell them that we have a ground beef herd and we have a steak herd.  
**[0:28:49-0:29:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:28:49):**  And the ground beef herd is like when it comes to making lemonade out of lemons when grazing is concerned, you can't beat a Coriante.  I'm pretty sure we could go out there and set them all on fire.  They'd probably put themselves out and be better after they did it.  
**[0:29:07-0:29:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:29:07):**  But they just don't finish the way that people down here want their beef.  And grass-fed and grass-finished beef is an uphill market even though it's kind of having good PR right now.  People think that they want it, then they have a steak that's lean and then all they do is talk shit about grass-fed, grass-finished beef.  
**[0:29:27-0:29:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:29:27):**  And it's bad for everybody.  So we're kind of with the red Angus.  You can tell in our pasture right now when it's over 100 degrees, the red Angus are all held up under a tree and the Coriantes are out there tap dancing on rocks and eating thistles.  
**[0:29:44-0:30:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:29:44):**  But they're not turning those thistles into ribeyes.  So it's kind of like we have to have one foot in each to make the business work kind of thing.  So you're talking about putting South Pole over your Coriantes, which I like that and I thought that was a good idea for a while.  
**[0:30:05-0:30:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:30:05):**  So this is kind of like the first time I've talked about it.  I just got my friend Richard at Hac Creek Cattle Company.  There's your shout out.  
**[0:30:15-0:30:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:30:15):**  He brought me a special little bull by the time this comes out of a couple weeks ago.  So he'll have been at work for at least three weeks.  So the bull he brought me is a Mashona South Pole Cross Bull.  
**[0:30:30-0:30:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:30:30):**  His Mashona mother came out of Jaime Elizondo's – no, that's wrong.  The oldest Mashona herd that's down in Florida that a lot of people associate with Jaime Elizondo.  His mama came out of there and his South Pole dad went to work in Virginia at Polyface Farms, Joel Salatin's place.  
**[0:30:52-0:31:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:30:52):**  So we turned him out and hopefully he'll go to work on my two-year-olds and the one-year-olds.  Hopefully, I've got a lot of two-year-olds that are straight up Coriantes or Sale Barn Cross and probably most of my one-year-olds are going to be kind of the same.  The calf crop I've got on the ground now is the first one that I've bred all of it.  
**[0:31:20-0:31:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:31:20):**  Some of the calves that I got on the ground from this year look better than the one-year-olds from last year.  I hate to say that.  I've got some ones that were born last year that are dang near the same size as some of my two-year-old full Coriante cows.  
**[0:31:37-0:31:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:31:37):**  I've seen some of that too with these Coriantes. Last year's crop definitely looked better than the crop from the year before.  Size-wise and stuff, they grew out a lot better.  I just attribute it to better forage, I guess, but it's the exact same breeding.  
**[0:31:58-0:32:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:31:58):**  Same cows, the same bull on those.  It is a stark contrast between the two.  Really, it's not a contrast because if you look at them, you can't tell which ones are which.  
**[0:32:13-0:32:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:32:13):**  So they're nearly the same size.  I guess the contrast is in how they've grown.  I've been really watching the last 60 days of when we're on our best grass of how the cows are responding.  
**[0:32:31-0:32:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:32:31):**  Mine versus all the customer cows on the ranch.  Just straight up, they're not putting on the raw pounds that the other animals are.  But then again, are they putting on their percentage based on weight?  
**[0:32:47-0:33:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:32:47):**  Probably. Are some of them carrying a lot less fat than the continentals?  Definitely. Those kind of get marked over the ground beef herd.  What you guys will put the ground beef herd, I have a little bit different name I'm not going to say on the air yet.  
**[0:33:02-0:33:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:33:02):**  I'm not even going to say that I have a steak herd, but I have a herd, I have a pool in there that I'm looking at, that I'm watching that has that potential to grow into that.  Is that a market to chase?  We can all agree we need to have a little bit more carcass size, but it needs to be a reasonable size.  
**[0:33:29-0:33:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:33:29):**  1400, 1400, 1600 pounds is way too much. 1200, that's a good spot to be.  That's what I was going to say. Everything we shoot for us to kill animals around that 10, 50 to 1200 mark.  The ones we're running, they're built well enough that we'll get good fat coverage and good intermuscular fat at that size.  
**[0:34:00-0:34:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:34:00):**  And not have a lot of trim left over.  I think that is that real happy medium where, especially for someone in our situation where we're the ones selling it.  We're getting full utilization out of all of it and getting the most dollar value out of it that we can.  
**[0:34:21-0:34:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:34:21):**  There's still a lot of customer education. I talk about having that steak herd so that we can have bigger steaks, but people still ask about why are steaks, why are they still so small?  Especially with like briskets, you know, because Texans eat a lot of brisket, you can get a fully trimmed brisket from the store that's $12.  Well, our brisket, as it comes straight off the earth, 12 pounds, sorry.  
**[0:34:47-0:35:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:34:47):**  Our briskets straight off the animal as they come not trimmed at all might be 12 pounds.  You know, it's, they're tiny compared to what you get at the store. And so a lot of people have questions about that.  And we just tell them, you know, those big animals aren't what we're going for. They don't work in our system.  
**[0:35:11-0:35:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:35:11):**  And I think that it's important for people to see that that's not what animals, what all animals look like.  I mean, you know, that's an unrealistic steak.  Unrealistic steak. I was sitting here thinking about what did steaks look like in the 60s? What did they look like in the 70s?  
**[0:35:36-0:35:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:35:36):**  Yeah.  You know, before we really started, you know, mass industrialization of the feed yards and building these big massive feed yards.  I mean, I get farmer feeders have been happening forever, but you know, back in the mid 50s, what did a steak look like?  
**[0:35:52-0:36:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:35:52):**  Not even talking about the pipeline to get it there, or whether it was grass fed, grain fed, like how big would a ribeye have been 50, 60 years ago?  And you said something about customer perception.  And I've thought about that a lot, you know, over the last couple of months, you know, we have customer perceptions about, about farming and ranching in general.  
**[0:36:18-0:36:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:36:18):**  We've got customer perceptions about grass fed versus grain fed.  That, you know, that in every lie, there's always a negative truth, but then there's that truth can always be misinterpreted or misdirected.  And I guess what I'm saying is, you know, the public perceptions of how we eat and what we eat, I think to a lot extent are flawed and what we expect out of our food is, is, has been flawed for a while.  
**[0:36:51-0:37:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:36:51):**  Oh, for sure.  Yeah. I mean, I would say 85% of my job is customer education and customer dealing with customer perceptions, preconceived notions about what food should look like or what it looks like or what's normal, you know, things like that.  Our pork, if we process, sometimes we'll process the sow when they're, you know, done being a sow.  
**[0:37:16-0:37:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:37:16):**  I could pull a rib chop off of one of those sows and put it next to a ribeye and you would not be able to tell the difference because it's the same size. They're the same color, that dark, dark meat.  And I've had people ask me before what's wrong with our pork because it's not white pink.  That's not white meat.  
**[0:37:34-0:38:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:37:34):**  That's the other white meat. And, you know, to no fault, I mean, I don't want to say to no fault of their own because they could be out there doing their due diligence and researching things, but it's what they see at the grocery store.  Like steak is red, pork is light pink. So they, they have no idea. I tell them, this is probably the pork that your grandfather ate or your great grandfather ate and they have no concept of that.  They think that they think their steak should be bright red with pure white, with pure white flecks of fat in it.  
**[0:38:11-0:38:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:38:11):**  They think their pork should be light pink, almost white. They think their chicken should be whiter than bleached paper.  And a seven pound whole bird.  Yeah. And a seven pound bird. And, you know, they want their bacon for a dollar fifty a pound and, you know, they want to go through McDonald's and eat off the 99 cent menu.  
**[0:38:30-0:38:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:38:30):**  Yeah.  Most of, most of our customers, but I mean, they're, they came to us for a reason. They're at least somewhat informed.  But because we're so close, I mean, you know, we're right in between two of the largest cities in Texas. So we have a lot of people just stop in because they're close.  
**[0:38:50-0:39:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:38:50):**  And so there, there is still quite a bit of customer education.  So how do you really feel about farmers markets?  Well, since you asked.  
**[0:39:05-0:39:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:39:05):**  I actually get this question a lot. We have a, there's, we have a lot of friends that we have met because they're getting into farming and so they've called and talked to me. We have, everyone's trying to put together a farmers market, which is something that I don't think is great.  I mean, the, the market market is saturated. I feel.  But why do you say the market market is saturated?  
**[0:39:30-0:39:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:39:30):**  Because the, the types of vendors that should be at a farmers market.  There's not enough of them to do a farmers market every 10 miles.  There's not enough farmers. And if you put 10 farmers markets in a town like New Bromples, they're all just going to cannibalize each other.  
**[0:40:00-0:40:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:40:00):**  That's that's spreading customers to 10 markets when you could consolidate have one really good badass market where everyone goes.  But I don't like that person that puts on that one three blocks away on Tuesdays. I want to have mine on Thursday after on Thursday mornings. Cause I don't like them.  But it's from my experience, it's more fun to talk shit to them, to their face at a booth next to you than it is to talk shit behind their back. That's what all the farmers market, they just bitch within each other.  
**[0:40:26-0:41:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:40:26):**  And that's, I mean, like we, there used to be, there's the farmers market in New Bromples is on Saturday. There was one that started on Wednesday night.  That was kind of a situation where this, the Saturday one was run by someone and someone else wanted to start another one. So they started the Wednesday one. And I think that you can do that.  But when you get into places like Austin and Houston that have tens of Saturday markets from nine to one every Saturday, you're just kind of diluting everyone's pool.  
**[0:41:03-0:41:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:41:03):**  And you end up with a lot of stuff that's more artisan and less farmers. It winds up being crafty type stuff and all kinds of stuff.  It winds up being crafty type stuff and all these other people that aren't farmers or it's prepared food. And it's just, you wind up with just a bunch of tourists out there, honestly.  Jams and jellies and candles.  
**[0:41:29-0:42:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:41:29):**  And that drives the farmers market customers away. I've been a part of farmers markets where they continuously get complaints about there not being enough farmers. Like there's too many other things out here.  But when it comes to farmers markets, what I will say is we don't do farmers markets anymore. That it's not part of our business anymore, but I don't know that we would be to this point without a farmers market.  They are a grind. They are hard on product, especially if you're selling frozen meat out of coolers.  
**[0:42:09-0:42:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:42:09):**  But they are great exposure. And depending on the one you go to, they are really cheap, great exposure. It's a way to get in front of customers.  And that was kind of where I was really wanting to end up or where I was hoping we would go is why don't you do farmers markets? What was your experience with them? And you just kind of summed it up that we've heard it before on their show. Right guys?  It's good farmers market is a grind. It's hell. They suck, but it's a necessary part to get your name out. And I think there's probably a fair amount of folks listening out there that are still doing the farmers market grind that are like, yes, there's a light at the end of the tunnel.  
**[0:42:56-0:43:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:42:56):**  Like I can build my customers to the point where I don't need this anymore.  I tell everyone that asked me farmers markets are an incredible incubator. Like you should absolutely I don't ever discourage anyone from getting into a farmers market. I think it's where you learn about your product.  It's where you learn about your customer. It is the easiest way to educate your customers because they're there talking to you. I mean, you know, it's not  
**[0:43:25-0:44:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:43:25):**  they don't. It's not a phone conversation. It's not an email conversation. You're face to face. They can ask you questions. It's a conversation and people like that. People always liked the time that we took with them at the farmers market.  For our business. It was not it's just not sustainable.  We do. We have our retail store at the ranch. We do deliveries and we were doing wholesale and farmers markets. And we just even if the it wasn't a drag on time and it wasn't hard on the product. We didn't have enough inventory to do all of those.  
**[0:44:02-0:44:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:44:02):**  Well, it was like we were quarter asking for things and we needed to be whole laughing two things.  I know exactly how that feels. So and that's, you know, I didn't we didn't burn any bridges. When we left that the farmers market in San Antonio. They're great people like honestly, when I'm at when I was at the farmers market, I loved it like the four hours of the market being with the other vendors being with the customers like it was great.  That four hours was a 12 hour day for me. And when it's 103 degrees outside for all four hours of that market, you know, that's pretty tough. But you know, we I left that market on good terms. I've still talked to the people that run it. But it's just not.  
**[0:44:46-0:45:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:44:46):**  I, I know that there are people that successfully do most of their business at farmers markets. I don't I don't ever see how we could have done that. Like we needed, we needed to pivot to something else. So we opened the store.  I keep hearing that a lot from from meat producers, about farmers markets that it's, you know, it's great advertising, great exposure. But the workload to get there is a lot and a lot of them wish they could could quit doing it.  Well, and for us, I made it even. We talked a lot about whether we should continue to produce all of the proteins. But like all the other vendors when they came, they would have like two coolers of meat because they just did beef or they just did pork or they just did lamb.  
**[0:45:35-0:46:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:45:35):**  I was hauling 750 quart coolers in and out of that farmers market, because I wanted to be fully stocked on all the protein. And that was if we didn't have eggs, like it wasn't egg season. If it was egg season, I was hauling in 270 quart coolers of eggs.  So it's  And then you still know the part of that with all that handling and in and out and all that stuff. You're just touching that product so many times and you wind up with busted seals and stuff that you've got to sell at a discount or, you know,  
**[0:46:09-0:46:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:46:09):**  Stuff that gets too warm.  Exactly. Well, and I couldn't like, I'm not going to take whole briskets to the farmers market because they take up a lot of cooler room, you kind of have to like Tetris all of your meat into these coolers.  So there's days when I could have sold 10 whole briskets at the farmers market, but I don't bring them because if I do bring them, they're taking up room from ground beef that I could sell.  
**[0:46:33-0:47:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:46:33):**  If you brought 10 you would have sold two. Yeah, yeah. And then those people that want them aren't going to show up. So I would like pre sell briskets. If you wanted to brisket, you could prepay for it and then I would bring it you could pick to pick it up at the market.  But it just it  And in some ways limiting what you can bring to a farmers market like your choices is good. You know, people can get very overwhelmed if they're looking at 400 choices of meat at a farmers market.  
**[0:47:05-0:47:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:47:05):**  But yeah, it was just logistically it had it had really become a problem.  The other bad thing about it is too, you have it's so hit or miss. I mean, you'll have a weekend where you just absolutely kill it and come home with barely anything left.  But a wad full of money and you'll the following weekend. It'll be exact opposite. You'll you'll sell 100 $200 and you didn't even pay for the gas to get up there.  
**[0:47:35-0:48:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:47:35):**  You know, so it especially around here with these markets. They were very dependent on what else was going on in town or what the weather was doing if you know if it  was miserably hot and there was some event going on. It was just you get nothing and and and so you just wasted all that time and money when you and that was our a lot of our rationale switching over to this store here at the back of the ranch and and just basically open it up.  And we said, Well, we don't so much at least we didn't waste the time going to the market and you know we're here at the ranch, we can do other things in and around the shop and and at least be efficient of our time and not just sit there twiddling our thumbs.  
**[0:48:28-0:49:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:48:28):**  Right, well and until nine months ago. It was just Jeremiah and I here, like we didn't have any employees we didn't have any help. It was just the two of us. So, we were limited in the amount of markets we could do like some of these big vegetable producers  and meat producers, they have teams of people they can do six markets in a day that might be sustainable you know that's that's a good model. We were limited to all of the different markets.  So, that, that really limited us, because then we were just banking our whole week's money like the income on that one day, which is not sustainable, like that, and if it was a bad week, then that was that bad week blood over into like the next week and then you know,  
**[0:49:15-0:49:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:49:15):**  it just kind of snowballs. Yeah, right.  So, we, we, we open, we quit one farmers market to open the store and then this year 2022 is the year we didn't go back to the other one for 2022, we just decided to try to make a go of it. Now, I will say that decision was made a lot easier, because COVID really  changed the way people buy their food, like we really didn't have a delivery business pre COVID. Okay. And then that hit and delivery was our main business. People, people work.  
**[0:49:59-0:50:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:49:59):**  Yeah, it's, I mean, it changed the way people buy things across the board, but it changed. You know, we got customers because we offered delivery. And we got customers because we had product, you know, we weren't out we weren't limiting ground beef we weren't limiting anything else.  And so, I think, I don't know that we would still be a farmers market if it hadn't been for that. But it's a big reason. He's shaking his head no.  He wouldn't that's why he's shaking his head, he would have been here.  
**[0:50:34-0:50:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:50:34):**  I don't know if I would have been in farmers markets so but it.  It gave us a good head start to make this decision.  Because we still have I mean a lot of our delivery customers now people are used to having their groceries delivered to them. So we have a lot of holdover customers from COVID.  
**[0:50:51-0:51:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:50:51):**  Okay.  So tell me about, tell me about your store like, is it a karma store is it man done man.  Tell me about your store like, is it a karma store is it man done man.  
**[0:51:13-0:51:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:51:13):**  It's Saturday and Sunday from 10 o'clock to two o'clock, and there'd be one of us up there we both be in and out or whatever and basically it is a metal shop that's on the bar workshop whatever that's here on the property.  And it was already partially finished out.  And so we just went in there and set in initially it was three or four chest freezers that we put in there and basically opened the big roll up door and said, and the gate and said, here we are, come on out.  
**[0:51:48-0:52:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:51:48):**  Like any good meat purveyor we had several Facebook and Craigslist freezers that we had been storing meat in right before we could get a walk in.  So we basically just cleaned all those up and set them around and put signs on them and put meat in them.  But now. Now we have merchandise freezers and the glass front ones we still have some chest, I mean it's still kind of janky, you know, if we're doing it one piece at a time but nobody starts at the top that's okay nobody does nobody does, but now we also  
**[0:52:23-0:53:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:52:23):**  carry other people's products so like we have some friends that have a farm, about 45 minutes from here that do pasture poultry, which is the thing that we are not into doing so we buy their chicken and sell it at the store.  All of the foods that we got really used to eating because we were doing farmers markets that we don't get any more because we're not doing farmers markets we started carrying that stuff so that we could still eat it but also because people that come out to the store  and they don't have that kind of thing it's, it's higher quality foods made by local producers that that they can't really get out here they would have to go to a farmers market to get it.  
**[0:53:01-0:53:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:53:01):**  So, we started carrying several products like that, just things that are produced locally, people that we know that aren't anything that we would produce ourselves.  Okay.  Is that kind of correcting some of the issues you saw at farmers markets where there is too much saturation of product.  
**[0:53:27-0:54:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:53:27):**  Not really, I mean, we're, we're limited by space, and what we could get you know so I mean we, if it came down to like, we didn't have enough lamb or something like that, or lamb and pork would be harder for us to source because not as many people do it, but  like if it came down to something if we ran out of ground beef, and we had a friend that had like a bunch of ground beef, we could source ground beef from them.  We just don't have enough room, or really enough traffic to be stocking multiple producers of things that we produce kind of thing. I guess that was, that was kind of what I was leading into is, you know, are your customers happy with what you have or are they asking you for different offerings,  
**[0:54:14-0:54:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:54:14):**  like, not necessarily just different proteins but are they asking for, like say vegetables or baked goods or things like that.  They do we could ask for vegetables, quite a bit.  And I'm trying to figure out where part actually yesterday we're part of a co op that does like a monthly meat share and a monthly vegetable share, and they take off July through October.  
**[0:54:37-0:55:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:54:37):**  So, the vegetable producers don't have anywhere a lot of them don't do farmers markets because of the reasons that we spoke of earlier, and they move their product through the, through the body co op, right, so I was talking to some of them about if they if they wanted to bring us  what they have that we would sell it in the store.  Because we don't have a vegetable operation.  
**[0:55:01-0:55:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:55:01):**  It's something that we've talked about but again, there's only us. So, but, and I feel that acutely like, so, how common are vegetable farms truck farms, you know, small scale family far.  I hate to say family farms because you know family farms is like everything, everybody's yeah cargo farm, right, my, my left foot.  But you know farms that aren't on a massive, massive industrial scale that are primarily still tended, you know, with, with a lot of human labor to grow to grow, you know, a wide variety edible crops I'm not talking like you know, a 500 acre soybean farmer  
**[0:55:46-0:56:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:55:46):**  or 500 acre watermelon patch right you know, right, right. I mean, they're in this area, they're pretty common, and it seems like more and more are trying to start up like that homesteader mentality that we were talking about earlier.  The problem is, or the problem that I that I've noticed, which is not just for here it's it's everywhere is that, you know, we all know that that farming and ranching, especially on a small scale is very romanticized and people get into it because they feel  like they do it because they like the lifestyle of it, but they're not. They don't understand the margins of it, they're not they don't treat it like a business, you know, and a lot of times, they get real good up and going and then they have to shut down  
**[0:56:33-0:57:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:56:33):**  because they can't pay they figured out they can't pay their bills or they don't want to have to work an off farm job and do this and everything like that so there's a lot of starting up here, and then not making it, which, you know, sucks to watch.  It does suck to watch and I have a lot of feelings about how like better ways that it could work for for those kind of people, you know like reasons why they can't get into it and can't be successful, but we actually for for the, for the part of Texas that  we have a lot of people that are like, you know, we're not going to be successful, but we're going to be successful. And there are a fair amount of like well established small producers in this area, vegetable and meat.  
**[0:57:22-0:57:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:57:22):**  That's good. That's good. That's good.  Jeremiah you've been sitting over there you haven't heard a whole lot from you.  I talk a lot, even to the expert here.  
**[0:57:34-0:58:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:57:34):**  What does Jeremiah look like.  Basically, you know, I mean, there's obviously a pretty clear delineation here that Maggie does most of the sales marketing stuff and mines mostly the production stuff so it's just managing the cattle the sheep and the pigs, moving stuff around we, we have everything  here, we've put in, I think, 19 miles worth of electric fence. So we've got about 40 different pastures that range in size anywhere from five acres to 120 acres.  
**[0:58:16-0:58:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:58:16):**  The average being probably around 40.  So we move those around through those move cattle and sheep through those pastures.  The watering system there's about nine miles of water line through this place.  
**[0:58:32-0:59:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:58:32):**  And so we'll, we'll move everything around.  The rotations can vary anywhere from multiple moves a day, down to, you know, maybe a week at a time, and in some of those larger pastures that we really have trouble subdividing.  Large pastures with trouble subdividing. I know how that feels too. Yeah, yeah. So, those, a lot of those bigger pastures that are on the hundred to 120 acre range.  
**[0:59:07-1:00:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=0:59:07):**  They're just, we set up a lot of these based on mostly on geography. The land here, they call it the hill country for a reason, right, and so a lot of these pastures are really hilly and this place has been  razed and eroded and so there's real thin soils. So trying to put a step in post into a half inch of soil and solid rock is, you know, that doesn't work. Yeah, it's tough. You'd need better posts than what I've got.  So, so in those cases we utilize those more permanent pastures and don't just leave them in there a little longer and don't worry about trying to subdivid it.  
**[1:00:02-1:00:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:00:02):**  I face some of those same challenges with terrain. I mean it's,  I'm in a paddock that's 167 acres, and I've already sawed it in half and there's just not another practical way to get across that canyon so it's one ridge to the next and it's broken in half where we can get it crossed in the one spot.  Right.  
**[1:00:22-1:01:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:00:22):**  And then just a mile south of there. I've got 550 acres that I can set up on strip grazing that I can get across with poly reels. Right.  Yeah, that's, that's the way a lot of ours is, I mean, we've got just a few clean pastures that used to be fields at one time, where we can kind of strip graze. Most of it is these bigger kind of brushier areas that are, you know, up and down and creek bottom and ridge top and that sort of deal.  You talked earlier about, you know that you had some ground that was had had a really strong canopy cover trees on it, and it's really brushy and undergrowth. You talked about pigs doing a clearing have the pigs done a lot of the work and clearing out that underbrush  
**[1:01:11-1:01:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:01:11):**  so you can graze, you know, other, so you can graze some ruminants through there like, did the pigs go in and clear things up and then you can bring in the goats to make it a little more open then you bring in the sheeps, and then you can bring in the cows is that  kind of how that works. They've done some of it.  A lot of what we've done is, is going mechanically clear and then run the pigs in there.  
**[1:01:37-1:02:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:01:37):**  And, and that's done well and basically using the pigs to add fertility back to the soil, and to kind of till up what you know well it is when you go in with the machine and clear brush.  And we're using most of what we've done there in these areas has been skid steer work so we'll go on with the skid steer in a grapple bucket and just knock the cedars over pull the stumps up.  And so it leaves it pretty rough. Right, and the pigs can go in there kind of sort of till that stuff up. And then we're feeding them in there and so they're, you know, putting their manure down and and chill and all this and.  
**[1:02:14-1:02:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:02:14):**  And they do a pretty good job adding some fertility back to the soil. So we've done that and then it's worked pretty well to bring some grass back.  And then we've also just ran them in places where we haven't cleared anything.  And it's too thick to do anything else.  
**[1:02:32-1:02:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:02:32):**  And just let them go underneath it. Now, I don't know that they've necessarily opened it up enough they've definitely opened it up, you know what that  big height. Right.  You know, top of the chin.  
**[1:02:48-1:03:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:02:48):**  Top of the chin. Yeah, basically, it'll be interesting to see how much grass we get coming back in there once it finally starts raining again.  But those areas I think they'll, they'll probably be just relegated to pig areas.  You know, it'll be a place we can rotate them in and out of and come back to, and it may, it just may never grow that much grass anyways.  
**[1:03:20-1:03:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:03:20):**  So what is your, what's your grass like?  The majority of this ranch is covered by Old World Bluestem. Whether it's KR or Clayburg or yellow or Australian or whatever all these different Old World Bluestem and hybrids are and it's a lot of that.  And then we've got some few pieces that that have some big bluestem and there's a fair amount of little bluestem as well.  
**[1:03:56-1:04:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:03:56):**  Well, I guess, I guess the Old World Bluestem, it does make a lot of volume. It doesn't need a whole lot of rain.  The thing about ours is it grows very flat.  So it actually, it doesn't make a lot of volume for us. Really? Because it doesn't, it's, y'all's may be different but it's not real upright.  
**[1:04:21-1:04:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:04:21):**  It, once it gets drought stressed or grazed very hard it kind of flattens out looks, it almost looks like a thin bladed crab breast.  And then it puts up a seed head, like immediately.  The stuff that I've got, customer cows are eating it and Tim, I know you're listening, your cows eat the crap out of Old World Bluestem.  
**[1:04:45-1:05:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:04:45):**  And it's probably because he's got a couple of pastures full of it down at his place where these cows came from.  So this is the first group of cows I've had on the ranch that really go out and seek it out like we moved them yesterday morning, and that's where they went.  They went for the couple of big Old World Bluestem patches, and they're mowing them down. I mean, they're eating 40 to 50% right off the top, taking the seed heads and stems with them.  
**[1:05:11-1:05:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:05:11):**  And it's pretty impressive the way they're using it and they're eating it before they're going after any of my good C4 warm grass, warm season grasses like the Big Blue and Indian grass.  They're walking past the little Bluestem to go eat Old World. Okay, fine, go eat it. Like stay in there even longer.  Maybe let's try to graze more of it down to dirt. But I've got another probably 20 days of pretty similar pastures ahead of them.  
**[1:05:40-1:06:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:05:40):**  I'm using them a little hard. I'm going a little bit hard on the usage because they're really eating that Old World Bluestem and they're going back on that fourth and fifth day and taking second bites of it.  If they're doing it on my Indian grass, they'd be in the next pasture. But doing it on that, go ahead, go ahead, eat, go back and eat that Johnson grass.  Eat that Old World Bluestem some more. We'll stay in here a few more days if that's what you all are eating.  
**[1:06:07-1:06:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:06:07):**  Yeah, for sure. Yeah, and that's what we've done is it too is tried to encourage them to eat that stuff and leave the Indian grass, leave the Big Bluestem where we've got it, which we don't have much Big Blue.  There's a lot more Indian than anything else out of those kind of more preferable native forages. But yeah, we definitely try to preserve those.  And we've done some seeding. We've done, where we've cleared some of that brush with an excavator, we've gone in and reseeded over the top of it and had some pretty decent results.  
**[1:06:53-1:07:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:06:53):**  Even in the rocky country, they're trying to get Indian grasses and switchgrass and Big Bluestem and even the Eastern Gamma grass to come back in there.  When I figure out the secret Eastern Gamma grass, I'll let you know because I don't have any of it.  Yeah, we've got a few places that have come back up here. We found just a few bunches initially in that first year we were here.  
**[1:07:24-1:07:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:07:24):**  And we've started seeing some more come back more recently.  We're doing some talks with some folks at university, folks around here, and hopefully we're going to start doing some trials on replanning some of it and doing some little tests and see what will help the germination and maybe even doing some plugs  and trying to get some plots of it established.  
**[1:07:55-1:08:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:07:55):**  We'll see how that works out. I don't know.  I know from what I've seen on this ranch, we had some old farm ground that got replanted.  It didn't do much. About 15 years later, he went back and he planted some forbs back in it, in addition to the native seeds that he put in there.  
**[1:08:20-1:08:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:08:20):**  And then with a matter of years, things start popping up. And it took a hard graze and a dry year with a very timely rain after I went through those areas.  Next year, we went down there. First time we'd seen the tall prairie grass. Is anything better than a little bluestem?  All of a sudden, we started seeing all the sweet clover and the skirt pea and the big grasses come up. What caused that?  
**[1:08:50-1:09:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:08:50):**  We had to have the forbs in there. I don't think just seeding the grass seed worked. You needed to have those native weeds in there for the complex interaction between plants.  Putting those in there and then applying a high energy graze event and then getting the good timely rain gave everything moisture.  I think it gave a lot of other seeds an opportunity to germinate that hadn't had it before.  
**[1:09:16-1:10:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:09:16):**  I think a lot of times we don't give enough credit to those weeds for changing the soil composition. We don't do a good job of recognizing what they're actually doing and why they're there.  The weeds are all telling us something. If a weed is growing in soil, there's a reason that weed is growing there. The soil needs something. Does it need shade? Is it deficient in the mineral? Is there a plant next door that needs a mineral that that weed is growing so it can provide really soon?  Why are the weeds there? They're all there. I object to the term weed as an undesirable plant.  
**[1:10:04-1:10:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:10:04):**  There's really only two kinds of plants in the pasture. Stuff cows will eat and stuff cows won't eat. Some say if you make them hungry enough they can eat anything. That's true. When I moved them in here yesterday, they went down there and ate a willow tree. Explain that. Why would they go eat a willow tree first?  To some extent, a lot of things in the pasture are cow feed, especially the things that people consider waste or junk or would spray 2,4-D to get rid of because they need more grass for their cows.  If you kill all those yellow clovers, that's what my cattle are eating first thing in the morning. They're going out, they're eating the yellow clovers, they're eating the legumes to get their rumen alive to get the protein going.  
**[1:10:51-1:11:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:10:51):**  Why would we want to take that away from the cows? Just so we could put it in our trip hopper and haul it out later?  You can have your pasture be exactly whatever your idea is correct. It looks good for your neighbor so it's all the same. That's one good thing about sheep too.  They're going to utilize that stuff that cows don't eat. By having both of them, we're getting better utilization out of the land in general.  
**[1:11:24-1:12:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:11:24):**  Even the places which is a big part of this ranch where we do have pretty poor grass and there are a lot more quote-unquote weeds.  We talked a little bit about using pigs to go in and clean up an area. I guess what I want to know now is as you're moving through your 40 paddocks,  what's going in, what's the first one to move to a fresh pasture? Is it the cows and then the sheep come after that? How does that work?  
**[1:12:05-1:12:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:12:05):**  It just kind of depends. Like I said earlier, those pigs don't really, they're not necessarily co-mingled with those cows and sheep.  We keep them in this one 60-acre pasture and then we're doing that on smaller areas.  Because there is wild hog pressure on the other ranch.  
**[1:12:27-1:12:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:12:27):**  Right, I remember that. Now you said you had just that part high fenced.  Yeah, so the rest of it will move. We'll just move the cows and sheep through.  The order can vary. Sometimes the cows are first, sometimes the sheep are first.  
**[1:12:45-1:13:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:12:45):**  There might be as much as or as little as one day of rest in between to as much as two or three weeks,  kind of depending on how it's all worked out and where they are in relation to each other and what we're doing,  if we need to work one and not work the other, whatever. And then there's times like right now where we have them combined.  
**[1:13:12-1:13:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:13:12):**  We're pretty heavy in drought right now. We've had such little rain compared to what we should have had.  We've got everything condensed into one herd, basically trying to give everything, all the other pastures as much rest as we can do.  I definitely feel the whole drought situation. I definitely feel that.  
**[1:13:37-1:13:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:13:37):**  I guess I was going to ask, and you kind of answered a little bit about, do the sheep follow the cows or the cows follow the sheep?  And why would you make a choice to do one or the other?  I think probably, typically it's the sheep following the cows.  
**[1:13:59-1:14:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:13:59):**  And that's because the sheep will eat more of the cattle feed than the cows will eat of the sheep feed initially.  I kind of work a little harder on the animal performance out of the cattle than I do the sheep.  The sheep seem to be able to get by on less quality.  
**[1:14:25-1:14:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:14:25):**  So it's just like if you were rotating finishers in front of dry cows, kind of that same mentality to me.  So whatever you need to have on a high plane of nutrition in front.  Right. Exactly. And to me, either the cows or.  
**[1:14:46-1:15:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:14:46):**  They either need more access to that grass or the sheep are just better at finding it behind them.  One of the two. I don't know what the case is. That makes sense. So that's that's typically how it goes.  You know, I hear a lot of people talk about keeping them together all the time and how you can always just run them together.  
**[1:15:11-1:15:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:15:11):**  And that hadn't necessarily worked well in our experience.  Like I said, I'm doing it right now, but it's kind of out of necessity.  The we've run into like about it. Huh? What don't you like about it?  
**[1:15:25-1:15:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:15:25):**  We run into some issues like during the winter when we're feeding hay and we'll go put out a bale and roll it out.  And if we're doing it, if we're rolling it out in the pasture, the cows and sheep are in at that time.  They're going to come mob it. I've had ewes get stepped on, lambs and broken legs.  
**[1:15:45-1:16:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:15:45):**  And, you know, because the cows are just running over them to get to the feed.  And even if they got a bale still sitting out there and you're sending another one, they just, you know, it's a cattle behavior problem caused by management.  Yeah, yeah, exactly. And so that that's been and then there's also the deal of trying to work on.  
**[1:16:09-1:16:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:16:09):**  You know, you've got to get them in there and separate them out. You know, if you need to work cows and or work sheep or whatever.  And in the way, especially the way we run the sheep, it's kind of everything all in there,  whether it's, you know, dry ewes or ewes of lambs or lambs that were grown out to butcher.  
**[1:16:31-1:16:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:16:31):**  So you kind of have to sort through everything if you need to take some some animals to the butcher.  So and we don't have a lot of freezer storage, so we tend to make trips more often to butcher.  So it's not like we're going twice a year with a full trailer load of lambs.  
**[1:16:56-1:17:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:16:56):**  You know, it's it's a couple of trips a month where we're taking one trip, we're taking 10 hogs and 10 lambs.  And in the next trip, we're taking 10 or 12 beef.  So trying to work through all that gets more difficult when you've got all those, you know, everything all together.  
**[1:17:19-1:17:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:17:19):**  Well, initially we had tried running them together because we were having pretty heavy predator pressure on our lambs.  We lost like half of our lamb crop one year. And so we thought maybe putting them with the cattle.  In addition to getting more pressure, like even pressure on the pastures that they we had read that they had heard people talk about giving some amount of.  
**[1:17:45-1:17:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:17:45):**  Predator control, or, you know, like a buffer, especially if there were calves in there.  Those cows aren't going to play nice with a coyote.  That really didn't pan out. So dogs are the answer for that.  
**[1:17:59-1:18:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:17:59):**  OK, so that the yeah, those even those Korean cows with their fancy horns and all that, they they really didn't care about protecting sheep.  I think they were glad to have the sheep eat, take their attention away.  Yeah, there's one that of mine that just found a new job because she can protect her calf from coyotes, even though she's got literally two feet off each side of her head.  
**[1:18:25-1:18:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:18:25):**  Right. Yeah.  And the cows did a fine job with the cows, I guess, because I've never lost a calf to a cow.  But lambs were a whole different story. It was almost like they were pushing the lambs in front of that.  
**[1:18:40-1:18:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:18:40):**  Like, hey, there's this lamb over here. Do you want it?  Yeah, look at that lamb over there. Don't look at my little scrawny calf. Look at that lamb. Look at all these little babies over here that want to be eaten.  I could see that. I could see the cows kind of conspiring to push the lambs off in the direction of the coyotes.  
**[1:18:54-1:19:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:18:54):**  Yeah. Those shady horyannies. You never know what they're going to do.  Man, I've got a couple of them that keep looking at me like they're just waiting for an opportunity to stab me in the soft parts.  You don't have any like that, do you?  
**[1:19:10-1:19:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:19:10):**  Actually, no, really we don't. They taste the best. So we don't have them for very long.  We've been through. So back to that whole predator deal, though, those dogs have been just amazing for us.  We went through that last that winter that we lost all those lambs.  
**[1:19:33-1:19:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:19:33):**  I got on a waiting list with a guy in West Texas that raises some really good guardian dogs.  And I had to wait like three months for these two pups. They were like basically 10 month old pups that came trained, ready to go.  And the day I dumped them out, that was it. They instantly paid for themselves.  
**[1:19:56-1:20:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:19:56):**  We didn't lose. The losses stopped then.  And I won't say we haven't lost any lambs since then, but it's been few and far between.  And it's been in situations where they're in, you know, a bigger pasture and they wind up spread out.  
**[1:20:15-1:20:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:20:15):**  So what breed of dog?  So it's a lot of people call them like a Texas cross or whatever, because it's it's Pyrenees, Akmash and what's the other one?  Anatoleian.  
**[1:20:32-1:20:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:20:32):**  And in it, this guy's been doing this for years. And so he's kind of got his own special, you know, he's bred up his dogs basically with that basis.  OK, so how do they live out in the pasture?  Just like a sheep or a cow, you know, they don't have you don't put a doghouse out for him.  
**[1:20:54-1:21:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:20:54):**  We we do have a we have a little feeder set up that I built. It's just a little trailer with with cattle panel around the sides and roof on it.  And it has a one of those self feeders in it that holds, you know, 50 or 70 pounds or whatever a dog food.  So that's all a little trailer that I can pull behind my ranger. And when we rotate pastures, I'll hook onto that.  
**[1:21:22-1:21:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:21:22):**  And the sheep have learned that that's you know, that's how they know we're moving pastures, right?  So especially when I hook onto that and they hear clanking, you know, moving, they'll they'll come fall in behind and just go on to the next pasture.  But that thing basically has cattle panel all around it.  
**[1:21:41-1:22:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:21:41):**  And at one end of it, there's a one foot wide gap at the bottom where they can where the sheep or the dogs can get in it, but the sheep can't.  And that mobile doghouse. Yeah.  They have separate water from the sheep or they just have to water where they get water.  
**[1:22:00-1:22:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:22:00):**  Yeah, they'll water with sheep. They I mean, they don't ever leave those sheep.  They think that they are sheep. When Jeremiah took some ewes in the trailer with him to go get those dogs and he had them like in the front compartment with the gate closed.  And those dogs almost killed themselves trying to get in with the sheep. That's all they've ever known.  
**[1:22:23-1:22:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:22:23):**  The guy that raises these does a very good job of bonding them to the sheep.  So if you told me this when we bought them, that if you take these dogs anywhere, if you take them to the vet, if you whatever.  Take sheep with you because they will like freak out. They get real bad separation anxiety, I guess. So and I've followed that rule and they're fine.  
**[1:22:51-1:23:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:22:51):**  And that's honestly, I can't even they're not the dog that's going to come up and let you pet them and be real nice. And they're not mean.  They're not going to bite you, but they're not going to be your best buddy that's in your lap either.  So basically, even to catch them. I had one get into a porcupine one day and got a face full of porcupine quills and needed to take him to the vet because I mean, it was a lot.  
**[1:23:20-1:23:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:23:20):**  Yeah, I wasn't going to try and pull them all out. And so basically we put some sheep in the trailer, you know, throw dog food.  Well, it was actually some ground beef. I use that as a treat once a while.  You know, if we have any broken packages or something like that, I'll use that and go out there with that and got them up in the trailer.  
**[1:23:42-1:24:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:23:42):**  And that's how that's how they get vet treatment. That's how they get their shots. That's how they, you know, got taken to the vet to get those porcupine quills out.  And that's that's kind of wild, but I guess that's what you really want in a dog.  I mean, if you're going to have a dog, if you're going to hire a dog, because honestly, that's what you're doing.  
**[1:24:03-1:24:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:24:03):**  You're hiring a dog to go do that job to keep those sheep safe.  You know, some people might think, you know, if you got to take into the vet, what do you mean you got to load up and take three sheep with you?  Yeah, that's that dog's anchor in reality.  
**[1:24:19-1:24:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:24:19):**  Like, it might not even know it isn't a sheep.  Yeah, exactly. It's crazy. There was one night there was a ewe that had been having trouble having a lamb.  And so we went out and it was it was pitch black, maybe like 11 o'clock at night. We went to go check on her.  
**[1:24:38-1:25:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:24:38):**  One of those dogs met us at the road. Not a lamb, not a sheep in sight, like nobody else in sight. It met us at the road.  We drove over to where we saw the eyeballs blowing in the headlights.  And it was every other lamb and sheep out there huddled up in one big circle and then that other dog's head sticking up out of the middle of it.  
**[1:25:01-1:25:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:25:01):**  Like one stayed and they sent the other one out as a scout to see what was coming.  It's amazing. And you really usually won't find those dogs more than 100 yards from a sheep.  So, you know, you hear a lot of stories and read about people, Facebook or whatever, and, you know, they talk about their dogs, their guard dogs roaming and all that stuff.  
**[1:25:26-1:25:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:25:26):**  And that's just not the nature of these these animals. This we've never found them anywhere.  The guy that raised these does such a good job with these.  I mean, they just don't run off. They stay right there with those sheep to do their job.  
**[1:25:42-1:26:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:25:42):**  They're our number one, their number one employees, even better than us.  It's awful hard to beat dung beetles on my operation, but it sounds like a dog like that really, really could get employee of the month at least once or twice.  I think if you're doing sheep or goat operation, it's mandatory. I mean, we wouldn't, after that, going through that first winter without them, I wouldn't do it again.  
**[1:26:07-1:26:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:26:07):**  We drug our feet for a long time and we got dogs that we tried to train, but I'm not very good at ignoring an eight week old Pyrenees puppy that looks like that.  I'm trying to put it in our bed, you know, so we have we've had several front yard Pyrenees that bonded to me and didn't work out.  These dogs are not cheap, and so we drug our feet for a while.  
**[1:26:37-1:26:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:26:37):**  They don't eat any food at all, do they?  Right. But the day we got them here, it was like, man, it's stupid that we waited this long to do it.  Frickin' 140 pound horse is what they are almost. We have one that's part porch Pyrenees, part chicken guardian.  
**[1:26:59-1:27:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:26:59):**  I hope. We haven't lost any in a while. The other day, actually, we were sitting on the front porch, middle of the afternoon.  We've got three mini Aussies, an old golden retriever, and our porch Pyrenees.  All of a sudden, the dogs freak out. Okay, there's something in the yard. They take off and they go out south toward the field.  
**[1:27:26-1:27:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:27:26):**  I'm not thinking anything of it. The little ones all come back and then Lily, our Pyrenees, comes back with a rabbit.  I think she went out and just found one in the field, or whether she got one that was trying to eat our garden.  Not really important, but she can get one. I think that's kind of cool.  
**[1:27:55-1:28:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:27:55):**  Anything else, you guys? What's the name of your operation?  The name of our operation is Pure Pastures. Our website is PurePasturesTX.com.  Okay, you guys active on social media?  
**[1:28:19-1:28:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:28:19):**  We are. One of us, half of us are.  Take a guess which one.  One of us is active behind the camera and one of us is active in front of the camera. So that's his part on social media.  
**[1:28:36-1:28:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:28:36):**  And they're both at Pure Pastures TX as well, Facebook and Instagram.  We forget anything today?  I don't think so. This is your show. Did you forget anything today?  
**[1:28:55-1:29:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:28:55):**  I don't think I forgot anything.  At least I hope I did. If I did, somebody will probably write in and remind me. I don't know.  We do a part two. You get a lot of questions.  
**[1:29:07-1:29:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:29:07):**  There's always part twos to do. I'll be honest, a lot of times it's like, get in here and kind of get to struggle. How do we keep the conversation going or is this kind of a good place to go?  And then you get done and I go back and I listen and edit. I'm like, oh man, we should have done this. We should have done this. I should have done this. I should have done this.  And I always end up with notes and notes and notes and notes. Next time I have, I don't even want to talk about how many legal pads I've gone through the last 18 months, 70 some odd episodes.  
**[1:29:40-1:30:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:29:40):**  Well, that's kind of how my ranching endeavors go too. Oh, we did this. We should have done this. We should have done this.  You figure out all this stuff you did wrong and try to go from there. And that's the biggest learning tool really is doing it wrong. You got to do it wrong before you can do it right.  That's right. That's right. One of these days I hope I'll do it wrong enough that I'll actually figure out the right way to do some of it.  
**[1:30:07-1:30:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:30:07):**  Yeah, we're still trying to get like to that side of the hill. We're still very much on the doing it wrong side of the hill.  I'm sure a lot of us feel that way but we got to remember that there's folks that are still climbing the hill that are looking up to us.  That's true.  
**[1:30:26-1:30:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/74-Maggie-and-Jeremiah-Eubank-Unrealistic-Stakes-e1lh5sl#t=1:30:26):**  So, no matter where you are, you are where you are and it's always, it's a journey, and I guess the fun is getting there right? Yeah.  Alright guys, let you go and go ahead and enjoy the rest of your day. Appreciate you joining me. Thank you, bro. Enjoy the rest of your week.  