---
title: 76 Katie Scarbrough Creating Value
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2022-08-08)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:00:00):**  Hello and welcome back. This episode is made possible by our generous patrons over on patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher  Our patrons are michael nathaniel brian brazos rasmus clay. Jason jordan ryan  Mal, william lyle and george. Thank you guys. Thank you all so much for your support. You can be one of them  
**[0:00:21-0:00:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:00:21):**  By checking the show notes for a link to patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher  This week we are staying in wyoming and we're heading about a hundred miles west to visit with a friend of mine in the wind river mountains  We talk about another federal grazing situation how they're implementing joint monitoring programs  
**[0:00:36-0:00:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:00:36):**  And what it's like to raise a family while juggling a busy multi-state sell-by trading empire from barcross ranch in corel, wyoming katie scarborough  All right, gotta pay some bills if you haven't heard about anchor by spotify  It's the easiest way to make a podcast with everything you need all in one place  
**[0:00:54-0:01:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:00:54):**  Let me explain anchor has all the tools that allow you to record and edit your podcast right from your phone or your computer  When hosting on anchor you can distribute your podcast on listening platforms such as spotify apple podcast google and more and it's super easy  It's everything you need to make a podcast in one place and best of all anchor is totally free  
**[0:01:13-0:01:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:01:13):**  Download the anchor app or go to anchor.fm to get started today  So hi katie how have you been? Hi brian i'm good how are you?  Well looking for a rain like a lot of folks and hopefully by this time comes out the recording will make a liar out of me  
**[0:01:43-0:02:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:01:43):**  But other than that the grass is green i've got the right amount of cows on the ranch and we're going to see her through to the end of the year at least  It's a wonderful thing it's a good feeling  So we haven't we haven't really caught up for a while I mean I did see you down at grass fed exchange down in fort worth that was great to see you and meet your husband and see your son  
**[0:02:05-0:02:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:02:05):**  That was really special so tell us where you're at these days  Yes so I am in Cora Wyoming it's a southwestern part of the state. We're about 65 70 miles southeast of Jackson Hole  We actually sit basically in the Wind River mountain range we sit right in the foothills here and basically border forest on two sides of us so we're right up there  
**[0:02:37-0:03:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:02:37):**  Against the against the edge of it and that's that's kind of our main base, but we're running right now over by wheatland and last area and then also run it some cattle in Nebraska and California, as well.  So I'm all over but I'm supposed to live in Cora  So, okay, so what's the operation there in core look like.  
**[0:03:01-0:03:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:03:01):**  Yeah, so, Cora.  So, Cora is basically a way for us to create create value with the livestock that we purchase and other areas of the world, if you will. So what that means.  Of course has excellent super strong basis you know we're pretty close to Nebraska we're pretty close to that Omaha area.  
**[0:03:23-0:04:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:03:23):**  So the closer we can bring cattle up to us the more value we create and how we use Cora is basically as a pairing for other areas of the world, mainly California is where I stockpile a lot of these cattle.  We put them together out there, Utah, Idaho, Arizona, Nevada, Oregon,  couple out of Washington and then some out of California stockpile them all right there and basically how I determine stocking Cora is how much opportunity there is in the market, and how many units and production that's going to translate into on my  
**[0:04:08-0:04:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:04:08):**  So, so that's basically how we use Cora and then everything to the east of us. It's, it's all the same thing except for it's a one stop shop. So anything that I buy there is typically to the south or to the east, bring them into Nebraska, for the eastern part  So anything that I buy there is typically to the south or to the east, bring them into Nebraska, for the eastern part of Wyoming, and run in there and turn cattle single season there rather than kind of to seasoning cattle, if you will, like we do in Cora.  Okay, now I know you're extremely intelligent and talented.  
**[0:04:45-0:05:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:04:45):**  So all these places are least like you can you didn't just magically appear the money to buy these places. These are all these places I wish I had that ability know everything's least except for Cora.  There's a gentleman here who owns this property.  And he.  
**[0:05:03-0:05:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:05:03):**  Yeah, I mean he just owns this Cora.  So, you know, about 12,000 acres we operate on here and then we have an additional almost 30 well 25 27,000 acres of Forest Service and BLM we have least two. It's all contiguous to the ranch.  So it's pretty, it's actually pretty handy.  
**[0:05:25-0:05:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:05:25):**  And then everything else California's least I just put that together a couple years ago the Nebraska deal was new last year. And then where we're at in eastern Wyoming, I'm actually out with sage asking I'm sure you know sage, we've met.  Yeah.  Anyways, I'm out with stage up there and less right now this is our first year and the steers are doing awesome out there, even though it's bone dry. So you place you play some cattle with with sage and his crew.  
**[0:05:55-0:06:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:05:55):**  Okay, I did. Yeah, well there's only so many of me so like the California deal I run, even though I have a crew on the ground there.  So it's a Nebraska deal I'm just back and forth a lot but stage has been awesome because it's kind of.  I think I've checked them twice. So, it's been really great. We're also members of the young producers assembly of stock growers Association Wyoming stock growers Association here, officers together so I talked to stage pretty regularly so I feel comfortable  
**[0:06:25-0:06:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:06:25):**  enough to think that they're, they're doing pretty well with him. So,  I'm going to talk to him in a couple of months tell him I said hello. I will.  Next time you visit. So, so tell me before we got going on the recording you're talking about you know some of your federal grazing situations so the least land you have.  
**[0:06:49-0:07:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:06:49):**  Obviously you talked about the stuff over by sage wheatland, that's probably some more of the same.  Well, and we even run on state ground here too, which the you know the state's not.  We're pretty open to whatever management strategies you want to implement. And we just get into some pretty  
**[0:07:24-0:07:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:07:24):**  old school management techniques, if you will, when we're dealing with a lot of our federal grazing permits.  What are those old school management tech Oh, basically, so the operating procedures for the Forest Service in this area and I've talked to many people from all kinds of areas and it seems to be the same.  Basically we're written in the 70s.  
**[0:07:50-0:08:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:07:50):**  So, you know, let's think about the 70s, let's pile them in, let's not move them, and let's spread them out as far as possible. Right. So you have salt grounds that have to be federally approved that are showing that you're distributing the cattle as much  as possible. They do not want bunching. That's like the worst thing that you can do, according to the federal government is to group cattle and to move them, which we all know is quite antithetical of the truth.  Yes.  
**[0:08:25-0:09:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:08:25):**  I mean, I'm federal policy 50 years behind reality it's, yes. Yeah. And I mean, don't get me wrong, we have a lot of situations where, like, I mean we would need to can't man to be able to regularly move those cattle.  And, you know, I think that's really the direction we need to be going and that's what we're working with. So we are really blessed in this area I've never lived anywhere like this, where all of our agencies love to collaborate.  And so we have a collaboration going on, I approached the Forest Service about this. So we had the Forest Service Sublette County Conservation District, which is our conservation district.  
**[0:09:03-0:09:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:09:03):**  Game and Fish.  And who's our fourth partner.  Oh, me.  
**[0:09:11-0:09:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:09:11):**  It's been a long day already.  What are the measurements that are acceptable by the Forest Service to say okay we're either measuring change forward or measuring digression, or what is cost effective and time manageable for the conservation district in the state so we actually got a state  that's pretty crazy state is actually paying attention, kind of thinking, Hmm, maybe we do need to change up some of this. And unfortunately the only way that can happen is with NEPA which is a federal process and full environmental inventory,  
**[0:09:54-0:10:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:09:54):**  basically Sublette County for NEPA to actually happen will be easily 10 to 15 years.  So 10 to 15 more years of set stock scattering, and these these landscapes aren't your prairie landscapes that have resiliency have great soil and can recover.  We were ranching on granite rock here. Okay, I mean it's a joke I'm like if we can ranch in core Wyoming ranch anywhere in the world.  
**[0:10:21-0:10:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:10:21):**  What's what's the yearly precipitation look like in in Cora 13 inches and half of that snowfall. Okay.  And are you dependent on irrigation Do you have any irrigated pastures there. Yeah, so we're flood irrigating pretty extensively down on the ranch. To give you an idea so like our sagebrush pastures.  There's about, I would say 10,000 of the data acres or sagebrush and 2000 are probably flood irrigated those flood irrigated pastures are equivalent in production so the 10,000 acres of sagebrush.  
**[0:10:53-0:11:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:10:53):**  Sounds about right.  Yeah, it wouldn't take very many pivots and some, you know, sorghum sedan or BMR even cover crop mixes to equal the amount of forage that I can grow on all my land.  Yeah, it's well you know it's kind of crazy is so I've actually looked at doing quite a bit of like broadcasting or inner sewing or any of those options in our meadows, and our climate is so harsh we have about 35 frost free days that we can't hardly  
**[0:11:24-0:11:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:11:24):**  get. Yes, yeah, we can't hardly get anything up.  So my, my efforts with cover cropping have not been stellar basically the only thing that I've gotten to come in or different clovers.  But we essentially have a domination of meadow foxtail.  
**[0:11:44-0:12:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:11:44):**  That's basically what it is which according to some of the seed people I've talked to the only thing that can compete meadow foxtail is this new like mutant meadow foxtail they bred to, I don't even know, some crazy.  Yeah, super mutant foxtail but allow brief oxtail we don't like but Linda. Yeah, yes, that was not an option.  It does seem like we keep trying to invent better grasses and better forages, just take shit over and are harder to kill. Well, so, okay, so I was like that's what I said it's like okay so you expect me to plant this, and then once you guys realize  
**[0:12:18-0:12:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:12:18):**  maybe in five years that this is the worst decision ever because it's like kr bluestem of South Texas or you know something like that, you know, how would I even get rid of it.  Well, you can also go I say fate until.  No, this is.  
**[0:12:35-0:13:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:12:35):**  Yeah, that's not how the world works. No, no. So, anyways, that's basically just a no. So, we're pretty much unfortunately we really struggle for some species diversity.  Quite a bit. Now that we have been doing some high density grazing now for several years, versus before it's basically been an anaerobic flood irrigated duck pond situation under ice cold glacier water for the past hundred years, probably a lovely  fraction layer and all kinds of microbial activity and fungal activity going on. Yeah, yeah, it's you know what's amazing though is just even looking at some meadows that are two years ahead of some other meadows that I have at a lower elevation.  
**[0:13:24-0:13:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:13:24):**  I mean they are still lifeless on the west side of this ranch and the east side is just blooming with life and it's 500 feet higher up here.  And that's because of taking the water off and running cattle, and you know what's really interesting. We actually were.  This is so fascinating so I've only ever seen this in Hawaii, have I run into this phenomenon it was a Parker Ranch one time, they were talking about managing for that managing for that.  
**[0:13:51-0:14:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:13:51):**  We don't manage for green grass growth.  We manage for that so that our cattle are still able to eat they have enough dry matter. Well I came in here and was like we're going to blow this up we're going to put the half million pounds to the acre.  We're going to change all this and I actually started realizing that my sub table of from water for my flood irrigation was so high, but if I tore up my cork is what people call it here.  
**[0:14:18-0:14:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:14:18):**  That's about four to six inches deep. If I tore that up I would literally have a standing pond under there. It's, it's flowing water, once you get four to six inches deep it's basically flowing water it's eroded all that material out from under there.  It looks like a video game in some places if you jump on the turf, it will quite literally wave away from you.  So that's just like a thin layer of soil, that's pretty saturated on top of the rock. Basically,  
**[0:14:51-0:15:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:14:51):**  it floats once the water's under it.  That sounds like fun.  So, so we backed it way up, and I took a page out of Parker ranch's book and you know what feels like the tundra compared to that. And it was, I realized it was like oh my gosh, we have to manage that.  
**[0:15:12-0:15:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:15:12):**  Not how much I'm grazing, but we need to manage that, or I'm going to have cattle sinking I mean we were roping cattle out of like all you could see was their head and the rest of their body was underground.  And I was like, I'm going to have to cross something.  Wasn't too many days I happen to do that before I'd start figuring out a solution real quick. I caught on real quick I was like this we're not doing any more of it.  
**[0:15:38-0:16:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:15:38):**  So, yeah, it's been interesting we only run like 20 to 20 to 35 is really the sweet spot 20 to 35,000 pounds an acre. That's it. Any more than that and I don't, I don't think it's good for our setting here.  How many times do you see it that stock density, and every day. Once a day.  Yeah, we're not moving more than that. I mean it's hard I mean we'll have, you know, two to 3000 and one heard. So, it's a once a day.  
**[0:16:09-0:16:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:16:09):**  Well, all you have to do is just get one to move and the rest will follow. Sure. No, I hear they move. They're just.  They're just a couple as well, especially, you know, our sagebrush, we're doing a lot of day hurting we're doing like these joint monitoring projects I'm talking about, we're out living on horseback with these things you know small pastures 1000 acres.  So then when you put them in poly wire, twice a year for a couple weeks.  
**[0:16:36-0:17:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:16:36):**  It's that they just takes a couple weeks for them to kind of get used to it. Sure, in their train their train. It's their behavior the settling and I think the shock to the gut to.  From the sagebrush to the meadow situation and then back up. I think I really noticed a difference in digestion for four or five days. And it seems if you just kind of let them give them a day.  I mean, I shouldn't say a day we move them every 12 hours so I guess that's twice a day.  
**[0:17:07-0:17:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:17:07):**  Morning and night they get moved.  Is there any rationale behind that the times for twice a day just when when labor was available. No, we have.  You're never going to want to come to core if I keep talking. We have like apocalyptic level mosquitoes.  
**[0:17:28-0:17:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:17:28):**  I'm not kidding from the flood irrigation. So if you move cattle, when it's hot in the bugs are up, they'll get so bugged they'll never settle again. Once they get it in their head that they can get away from those bugs.  I mean you'll watch horses do it too when we turn horses out. I mean they will go absolutely insane so we don't let them out the heavy bug times are literally all they'll do is run.  Okay.  
**[0:17:56-0:18:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:17:56):**  Interesting. I get another unique challenge to ranch in coral Wyoming. It's, yeah, I couldn't figure it out for the longest time I was like, Why are they not settling.  We had people trying to horseback to settle them in cells we use dogs. We, I mean anything you can imagine I started wind rowing I'm like maybe they need more dry matter.  The wind row the edges and get them to stop and. Nope. And finally the foreman who'd been here for, you know, since the dawn of time, but thanks for kind of crazed he was like, hey, Katie, running from the bugs.  
**[0:18:31-0:18:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:18:31):**  Oh, okay. And you wonder how long he watched you struggle.  That little nugget for forever. Oh yeah, yeah, he just drops it just walks off, like, hang on, let me pick my job off the floor and just deal with that.  So when it's 35 or 40 degrees every evening and morning, we move cattle.  
**[0:18:54-0:19:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:18:54):**  That's, that's nice.  And that's like right now like 35 degrees in the morning.  It was like 75 here this morning. I know. And we'll only have, we will only have 30 to 45 days at best of that.  
**[0:19:10-0:19:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:19:10):**  Otherwise you're walking out to a hard frost every morning.  Wow.  So, you're saying like your, your meadows are full that foxtail is the sagebrush country what what's the forage like up there I mean, you say sage so I'm imagining that least 50% sage but there's got to be something else.  
**[0:19:30-0:20:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:19:30):**  Oh, it's. Yeah, so it's it's really interesting actually because that's one thing I really struggled with since coming here is there's not a lot of great documentation of what these landscapes looked like hundred years ago.  And the white settlers weren't up this valley I mean this valley right here till about 30 to 45 1930 1945.  The house that I live in was one of the actual houses that was built after the homesteading cabins and it wasn't built till 62.  
**[0:20:04-0:20:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:20:04):**  The age of my parents. I mean it's crazy.  You know that's wild. Okay, so where, where I'm at like settlement really started to happen here. I think, 1883 is 1882 1883 is when the land here was open for settlement, and there were some homesteads, and I've actually flipped through the original abstract  for the property that I sit that I own here, my house not not anything out on the ranch.  
**[0:20:33-0:21:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:20:33):**  I need to do that someday though. Anyway,  I've gone back and looked at the original land grants and I know the history of this area. And most of the people that ended up staying didn't come here until after 1885.  There was a huge drought in 1885, and a lot of that first wave of settlers said screw this we're out of here and they left because they had a summer kind of like we're having right now where it was 105 every day and it didn't rain.  
**[0:21:00-0:21:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:21:00):**  Yeah, and they couldn't get any crops to grow on the soils that they'd only till that two or three years ago that made several amazing crops, which it probably did when it rained a little bit.  So, I guess what I'm getting at is, we got the train came through in 1906.  And it was in the mid 30s, it was Depression Era, New Deal projects that brought the highway through, and they rear lined all the roads out here.  
**[0:21:30-0:22:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:21:30):**  And it's, I've always kind of took that into perspective because I spent a lot of time on the East Coast in Hampton Roads, where there's literally houses that can be 300 years old.  And, you know, traveling around in Colorado going out for Jeep trips you'll love that stuff dates back to the 1850s 1860s, you know, even in the 1890s, you know for the gold mining.  And it's very interesting to hear that there was a pocket of the world in Coral Wyoming that wasn't even really settled, or even seen much by white people until 1920s.  
**[0:22:06-0:22:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:22:06):**  I know what's interesting is if you start to look at a lot of these really high elevation communities, like let's say like communities that were probably started for trapping trade, not even cattle.  There's been people on the south end of this valley what we call the desert 50 miles south of here for 100 150 years settling it.  What's interesting is as basically as land got gobbled up more, there was a super super bad winter in 1880 down here that basically wiped out like every cow for three counties.  
**[0:22:47-0:23:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:22:47):**  There's pictures of snow that was three four stories high everywhere.  It was amazing.  And, I mean, it looks.  
**[0:23:07-0:23:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:23:07):**  No, but it was interesting because people it was like, oh, oh my goodness we shouldn't just send our cows, all the way up into that North country, we should move up there, set up hey meadow have access to water, that was some of the mentality that fueled  the settling as people came up, and it's really interesting like if you look in places of, you know, Colorado, Oregon, Idaho, a lot of those communities once you start getting really high up in there like why the heck would anybody live at 8000 feet.  You know, I mean my house is nearly at 8000 feet. You know, that's usually because the views are really.  
**[0:23:48-0:24:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:23:48):**  Why would you bring your cows up here you know so it's interesting because historically where the cows were run what they called the mountains was really the foothills that I live in now.  And now where we run. I mean, we literally on the northern end of our permits will easily bring cattle down from 11 almost 12,000 feet and be scrambling on boulders to bring them down.  So, you're the tree line, they can. Oh yeah.  
**[0:24:18-0:24:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:24:18):**  It's actually kind of funny, they can walk if they clear there's one peak they could walk all the way to do boys find me.  There's no fence, which is right at all.  Well, I mean, if you got a 10,000 foot mountain but range between you and anything else that will probably work for.  
**[0:24:37-0:25:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:24:37):**  It's pretty effective but you know what's not super great is when it's a bunch of yearlings up there. And there's no mama cows to keep everybody turned around and at a reasonable high, let's not scramble up that and you know all those things you turn  1300 yearlings loose up there and they get some crazy ideas.  That's why I don't like to run your links too much. I like to stick with pairs or dry cows and I just like to do that because every once in a while the yearlings will go nuts and decide that.  
**[0:25:10-0:25:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:25:10):**  Oh, that fence looks interesting let's walk through it, then you got 2000 on your neighbors and he's all mad. Yeah, that was us last week, we had them flip an entire bucking rail fence on a water gap.  I mean it was like, oh man, probably 30 yards offense but I think everybody was kind of just playing with it scratching against it and romping around and they flip the whole thing over and just left 2000.  It's a good time.  
**[0:25:39-0:26:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:25:39):**  I got out myself. So, last year.  Just a little bit before seven, I was on my way to work like I was already out of bed I was getting on my clothes, I was on my way, I get a phone call. Hey, you got a couple cows out on the road.  Alright, thanks. I'm on my way I'll get there when I get there. Yeah, you know I'm already okay, so we step it up in a gear and, you know, get moving a little bit and two or three minutes later I get another call.  
**[0:26:08-0:26:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:26:08):**  Hey, you got about 20 cows out on the highway.  Okay, thank you. I'm on my way, I'll be there as soon as I can.  Make it out the door, get in the truck.  
**[0:26:20-0:26:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:26:20):**  Third phone call.  Hey, you got about 200 cows headed to Coldwell.  Okay, I'm on my way.  
**[0:26:29-0:26:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:26:29):**  So I finally get there, and I had about 200 of a client 200 head of clients cows and their calves were on the highway bags back man they were headed to town.  They weren't running they were just grazing very rapidly down the ditches.  So we managed, I managed to get up in front of him got him stopped and turn around head back to the gate.  
**[0:26:51-0:27:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:26:51):**  Fortunately I had a neighbor show up with his feed truck, and he stopped him from going any farther east. I brought the bunch from the west he flipped his siren on and sucked him right back through the gate, like, whoo, thank you.  So what I'm not saying is that gate was a little bit questionable to begin with.  Because it was a gate that burned up in the wildfire 2016.  
**[0:27:14-0:27:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:27:14):**  We got back through it got the corner reset, got a steel, you got a nice steel corner there everything's great.  Somehow that got missed on one or two of my big gate building rounds.  And I had just kind of mumbled it together, for lack of a better word.  
**[0:27:32-0:27:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:27:32):**  It was kind of looked a lot more substantial than it was.  They were just there and cool morning, and no reason why they were there, because it's like it's a just a gate kind of in the middle of a room.  There's no reason why they were there, but there they were something pressed up against that fence but you know, insect pressure, who knows, 200 cows in 15 minutes out on the highway.  
**[0:27:59-0:28:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:27:59):**  Yeah, the highway thing I can't.  I would have trouble sleeping.  I do sometimes, especially when they're next to the highway and you know when it's some of my half escape artists Corrientes that, you know, yeah.  
**[0:28:15-0:28:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:28:15):**  Have you ever you've been around many Corrientes? I unfortunately was three years ago.  Unfortunately, okay we got to hear this story.  Well, long story short, we kind of had a rogue order buyer.  
**[0:28:31-0:29:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:28:31):**  Okay.  They were half Charley, half Corriente, so they could travel but they were also very strong. And I honest to goodness there was one in particular was like, I'm going to shoot him before the end of this season.  If he doesn't quit leading just rebellion after rebellion, I mean they were horrible, but we ended up actually finally there were like, I don't know, a dozen or two that I was like, this is enough.  
**[0:29:00-0:29:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:29:00):**  And we whacked them out of the herd and took them to sale barn and it was much better after that but it was horrible.  I've always been told that those half Charley Corriente calves, the smoked calves grow really well. Do you have anything to say about that?  No, they really do. Well, I love a smoky, probably my favorite thing to run is smoky steer, whether it, I mean,  
**[0:29:27-0:30:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:29:27):**  if the Corriennys, Corriennys Charley cross if the horns are managed on them. And, you know, all of those issues, I'm fine, but I really like an Angus cow with a Charley bull, that's probably my favorite animal, they will outperform.  I mean down south up here everywhere I've been they will outperform everybody else. And the other thing I really like about them. They have good feet. I've found they travel well, they don't get brisket up here.  That's another big thing. Never had one die from brisket.  
**[0:30:02-0:30:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:30:02):**  They're much harder animals I really like them.  Okay.  I probably have all my black baldy friends rolling their eyes right now, but that's okay. Everybody's entitled their preference.  
**[0:30:15-0:30:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:30:15):**  And you know what, when they weigh 900 pounds or 1000 pounds, people are not that worried that they're not, you know, that they're Charley at that point unless you got all black you may as well have some smoky steers in there, so they create a lot of value.  I like a bigger cow than I do. And I honestly I think in mountain country in a cooler climate you can have a bigger cow.  Yeah.  
**[0:30:41-0:30:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:30:41):**  The big thing is they have to be able to travel. I mean it's so steep here they have to be able to travel.  And to be perfectly honest, Brian.  We don't really have the or I don't really have the luxury to.  
**[0:30:54-0:31:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:30:54):**  I got to put together so many cattle so fast and such a short period of time, I don't have the luxury to necessarily be choosy at what weight I think that steers going to mature out at.  I'm mostly just looking is he green right now. Is he going to live. Does he have capacity would be my only physical requirement, does he have that depth in his flank.  Okay, I don't want him to look like a rangey 800 pound cow, even if that's what he's out of I don't want him to look like that.  
**[0:31:24-0:31:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:31:24):**  Still look at my background to  cows I'd be there all day I absolutely hear you, but it's hard to sell their babies sometimes.  So would you say that you're, you're kind of running a background or type operation.  
**[0:31:40-0:32:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:31:40):**  I'm not so you know what that's interesting not necessarily so in the east, like those Nebraska area cattle south of there the hunt us Alina by some cattle out of Salina.  Those cattle actually background there in a yard in Nebraska in a lot there and then we'll get them out on some cover crops and corn stocks and various things in the West.  This is what gets really interesting I've never been in a situation where it pays to buy weaned cattle, but I buy weaned cattle out there.  
**[0:32:19-0:32:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:32:19):**  Just about how rough that country is out there and the kind of the ground that I have least it creates a lot more value to me to buy them like normally I've heard the rule of thumb, you know if they're only 10 cents up by them every time those weaned  calves are 10 cents up from on weaned, but I found that I really can afford to give like 13 or 14 and I'm still coming out ahead.  Okay.  
**[0:32:45-0:33:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:32:45):**  So, in performance head days are just everything for me on kind of how these lease arrangements work out there.  What.  So where is your ranch you have least in California, it sounds like it's kind of maybe up north and up in the high country.  
**[0:33:01-0:33:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:33:01):**  It's in the high country but it's actually in the southern end of the Sierras, it's down by Fresno, so it's kind of South Central ish California.  Basically right up against Yosemite.  Right.  
**[0:33:16-0:33:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:33:16):**  I can see why you like to drive out there and check it out. It's.  Well, and you have to remember there's also six foot of snow and it's, you know, 15 degrees blowing 40 here in Cora so we like to go to California.  But, yeah, it's really beautiful but I'm telling you when I went to look at this lease, honest to goodness, I was like, how are you ever going to get a yearling out of here and to how's a yearling ever going to make a living.  
**[0:33:44-0:34:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:33:44):**  I mean, need your reaction, I would have said this thing needed to be stocked with goats, but they somehow do it.  And you have, you have a labor team out there that I'm sorry I'm sure you said it before. No, you're fine. Yeah, so we have me think there's a foreman and we have a  foreman and three guys, and then to get out of that thing though is usually a crew of a dozen to a dozen and a half every day and then we also fly a helicopter.  
**[0:34:13-0:34:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:34:13):**  That sounds cheap.  Well, actually, so the, this is a funny story but there's a neighbor who he kind of is a young guy that likes to get some fancy toys, and he bought himself this helicopter it's like the mash style helicopter like you could die in this thing it's the glass  or, you know, I know exactly what you're talking about. I wish I could afford one I know how much they cost and how much gas they burn an hour.  
**[0:34:42-0:35:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:34:42):**  Yeah. So anyways, he just likes to go and fly this thing and kind of is always wanting somebody to go with him. I have never knock on wood I've never paid this guy, except for like a case of beer.  It's crazy he just likes to go fly and like we built a whole bunch of fence out there. And we were trying to figure out how we could even get the roles of wire out there. I mean this country is that rough because we couldn't pack enough in horseback and it's  like what are we going to do.  
**[0:35:13-0:35:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:35:13):**  And he was like well I'll just take it up there and helicopter. And this guy Tim, he works for me. He gets up there and comes back down and his eyes are like enormous and I was like Tim what's the matter.  And he got up there and the pilot told me I better throw it for all I was worth because if it hit the skidder we would go down for sure.  So he said I'm hanging on with the door open on the side of this thing got a leg hooked in, you know, not tied up you know all these things I'm like, oh, this is such a nightmare please don't tell me that you will ever do that again we have to come up with  
**[0:35:47-0:36:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:35:47):**  some safety protocol. And he was like, I think we should.  Yeah, you do.  I have this image of, I have this image in my head of like city him sitting in a helicopter with like three rolls of barbed wire on his lap, they get to the spot, he's got like, hold the door.  
**[0:36:06-0:36:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:36:06):**  Now, yeah, I mean Tim literally weighs, I bet you 140 pounds soaking wet, you know, and he's supposed to be throwing these giant rolls of wire off the helicopters. Oh my gosh you guys.  Yeah.  I don't even know what a roll of barbed wire weighs a lot. I for sure could not throw one from chest level far enough out, there's no way that would be work.  
**[0:36:33-0:36:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:36:33):**  It would definitely be a challenge.  Yeah, yeah, poor Tim, he was not about it so we've got to come up with a new plan, free or not. I think it's still not cheap enough if something happens.  Yeah, for sure. There's, it's hard to put a cost on a human life. Yes. So what sounds like you're on horseback, all the time.  
**[0:36:57-0:37:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:36:57):**  Yeah, so.  Well, yeah, I, my winners are basically I mean six to seven months out of the year I am founding computer nonstop trading, watching sales, watching markets.  That's all I do. And then I would say there's about five months, when we're here in Cora I'm horseback a bunch, like I'm horseback so I'm in California but it's like a day or two, once a month, you know, not anything crazy, but here in Cora,  
**[0:37:27-0:38:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:37:27):**  we make a lot of miles and our big thing is managing the big herd, and it's super challenging in the sagebrush ecosystems, super challenging. I mean a mistake here is something my kids could see, you know, when they're outside versus a mistake with a big  herd, Oklahoma, Texas, something I'm used to probably fix it in what four or five years at most.  Depends on the mistake. Sure, sure, but it's doable right it's not like oh my gosh I'll never fix this in my lifetime. That's what it is up here. When you get to those, those super dry cold environments, you know, it takes so long for the biological  
**[0:38:07-0:38:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:38:07):**  process to do their job like, yes, what I have in my mind is like the Arctic tundra down in Colorado, you know, way up high in the San Juan you know 12 13,000 feet.  And you're not going to cover from a footstep or higher track. Yes, yes, yeah I'm actually shifting to, I think, at most, our uplands here need grazed once every three years.  And it's it I mean you'll be trotting around out there and you'll literally ride passing cow pine and I think that thing's probably older than me, and that's not an exaggeration.  
**[0:38:46-0:39:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:38:46):**  It's quite literally just that slow and that dry and there's, there's just not topsoil in a lot of places you know I mean we're literally riding around on Granal, grab it.  Granite Granite gravel those sticky one, granted gravel, you know, up here so and it's a lot of miles I mean that's something you're alluding to the other day I ran the tracks tracker horseback and this was a particularly long day but we went 21 miles  before we stepped off.  
**[0:39:19-0:39:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:39:19):**  I was beat down. That's a long day.  That is, but typical would be more in that 1010 to 12, you know, and I'll be back in the office for three or four hours in the afternoon.  1012 miles in a side by side three four hours in the office in the afternoon that sounds very familiar. Not quite a side by side.  
**[0:39:46-0:40:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:39:46):**  Yeah, I have a roof that keeps the, you know, it keeps the sun, at least a little bit of the dust and most of the rain off. That's a good thing that man living up here.  Everything is tougher every plant every animal every person. That was one thing we had friends come visit this weekend and they're really good friends but the wife was like, Katie.  I'm saying this because I really care but I think you need to start using some eye cream. Since moving up here.  
**[0:40:14-0:40:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:40:14):**  What are you talking about. She was like, you look so much older in the few years that you guys have moved up here. I was like, wow, I mean I really kind of looked at some pictures I was like, this is the sun at 8000 feet I mean you can, I will get  a sunburn, I'm wearing short sleeves today so I shouldn't say that I've been inside most today, but I'll wear, you know, a scarf gloves hat the whole shebang all day long.  But if you don't have that on you could get a sunburn before 8am. I'm not kidding, because the sun's up by five in the summer, like broad daylight at five.  
**[0:40:48-0:41:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:40:48):**  And it probably doesn't get dark there to what 1030 right now. Yep, sunsets about 1023 or 24 right now.  Oh, that's fun. Little farther north and you almost have daylight.  It's interesting you know because I wonder about it a lot as far as how many heat units we actually are getting, because I always talk about and think about how much colder it is up here and wonder if he units as part of our problem, but it would be super  
**[0:41:13-0:41:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:41:13):**  interesting I'm sure someone's done it somewhere but I haven't been able to find find it, you know, compare heat units in Central Texas Central Oklahoma the heat units up here, and I bet they would be pretty close.  Heat units like meaning radiative power from the sun. Yeah, like available energy for plants to grow.  Oh, I think there's more at high altitude.  
**[0:41:40-0:42:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:41:40):**  Yeah, and.  Yes. And so again it goes back to the factors of because that's what you always hear people say up here. Well, it's too cold for this to recover it's too cold for XYZ or we're at 9000 feet right here this will never get a chance and I'm like, well, I mean,  I guess those are contributing factors but I don't think that's what we can blame a lot of the issues that we see up here on.  
**[0:42:05-0:42:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:42:05):**  It's not just the cold, it's, you know, lack of moisture the slowness of the biology, you know, all these things.  But I think it really tries to get passed off while we're under snow for six months.  Like, well, how much sun did we actually receive that when our growing period, and we're just not utilizing it properly.  
**[0:42:24-0:42:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:42:24):**  Really good question.  You know, that's the business that we kind of were in but we don't really talk about we're in the solar capture business we're taking that we're taking that solar energy and converting into a form that is usable by humans.  And one thing too that I think is so interesting up here is how powerful our grasses are, you know, we're, we are 98% cool season 98%.  
**[0:42:55-0:43:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:42:55):**  I don't know what percentage base my forage probably is that's perennial but I would say it is.  It's huge, you don't see the weed problems like you really kind of see in the south.  But I mean when those cattle are going out there and getting a bite it packs a massive punch compared to the quality of forage they could be getting somewhere else.  
**[0:43:15-0:43:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:43:15):**  And that's the other thing that I just I sit and kind of just look around and watch is like, wow, if we could everybody talks about all right, maybe I only grow 500 pounds of forage the acre, which is a lot of my country.  And I'm honestly kind of proud of it. But, all right, let's say we could get that up to 1000 and everyone says, Oh, well you can only double your stock density.  And I really wonder about that.  
**[0:43:43-0:44:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:43:43):**  Because once you're just actually looking at the nutrient density available at some point yeah and animals going to plateau then you so much dry matter intake and yeah you know you can create that whole argument.  I think these landscapes that they could be shifted in their management, you know if we can get the Forest Service to change if we can get the BLM to change.  If we can get what limited sagebrush acres are actually privately held if you could get that to change.  
**[0:44:10-0:44:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:44:10):**  I think it's a pretty fascinating thing. Well think about like the cattle drives the historical cattle drives when they used to bring all those cattle all the way up here.  It's not because there was ever a population up here. They were loading them on the railroad. You know why really doing that. And how much better was the forage base probably way back when when they were doing that.  And that's, that's something I just sit and wonder all the time so I'm like, how much wildlife population which we have big game up here and how many cattle were they actually grazing compared to where we're at now.  
**[0:44:43-0:45:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:44:43):**  And I don't think that we need to be growing 2000 pounds of the acre up here because that's what everybody says those mountains will never grow.  You know, x, y, z and I'm not here to say they will but what they do grow is some pretty powerful stuff.  So, interesting you bring that up I've been thinking a lot lately about about what the plains looked like, not just since we shot, since we extra paid the buffalo or since we, you know, trapped all the beaver out.  
**[0:45:15-0:45:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:45:15):**  So, we can go all the way back to say 1500 when the Spanish let loose their horses and the Creole cattle that became the Korean days and Longhorns.  And they let loose their European diseases that I mean, by some theory and this is theory and opinion from what I've heard.  Between 95 and 98% of Native Americans were wiped out post 1500 post European contact.  
**[0:45:42-0:46:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:45:42):**  So by the time you know 1650s rolled around and you know the history we were kind of taught starts like you know the Mayflower and the pilgrims Plymouth Rock that kind of stuff.  Those, those early immigrants to this continent encountered a civilization that was  maybe 100 years into recovery from a cataclysmic event that depopulated everybody they knew. Yeah, and they had no writing.  
**[0:46:14-0:46:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:46:14):**  And if you lose that percentage of your population.  How much of that oral history really survives.  So, that can be debated still.  
**[0:46:29-0:46:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:46:29):**  We know that that we know the Europeans came through in their search for beaver to make hats and killed all the beaver and we can kind of see some of the, you know, we're seeing some of the effects of that now we're seeing that you know beaver starting to go back in and, and, and move  back into places where we've restored the habitat.  And really, what I've been wondering about lately is they say that there were like 60 million bison, something like that.  
**[0:46:58-0:47:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:46:58):**  Yeah, 60 million bison. So, were they were the bison overpopulated and headed for a resource trash, because of lack of 200 years of hunting pressure by the Native Americans.  That's, that's something I've been kind of struggling with. So, maybe our perspective on the historical production of our rangelands and you know where we can graze in the mountains and the meadows.  Maybe it's a little bit skewed.  
**[0:47:30-0:48:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:47:30):**  I guess something else that comes to mind now is my dad told me a long time ago, 90% of what we think we know might be 10% correct.  It's very true. That's I always ask myself that question and management like is this an actual fact or is this a supposition because I should, you know, alter my plans accordingly.  But no, you bring you bring up a super, super interesting point I've been wondering that a lot appear to, especially with the big game and how much we see these populations affected by human population.  
**[0:48:11-0:48:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:48:11):**  Should these animals actually be this high, were these animals ever even up here.  You know all those questions, do it does an elf actually want to graze it, you know, 13,000 feet.  Probably not know the want to be on the plains, elk or plains animals. Okay, so I wonder those kinds of questions all the time and what's so interesting again going back for Forest Service going back to our game and fish.  
**[0:48:36-0:49:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:48:36):**  These management plans are written for this adapted.  Okay, we have this much population up here this much population up here. Oh, then we're going to feed them all in the feed grounds in the winter. We're going to extend your permit even higher up because you're getting more grizzly kill so you need more acres, you know,  all the, the, I don't know the thought process process of it all. And again, like, going back to, I just don't think we even ultimately know potentially what we're managing for, you know, we can look at what do people always like to quote the NRCS.  
**[0:49:16-0:50:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:49:16):**  What do they call those the eco site descriptions and then it has like the evolutionary step and progress and then climax logical site description, that's it.  Yes, the climax vegetation of the ecological site description. Yes. How do I actually look at those things it's insane it's like okay you're basically managing this to go back to maybe what it looked like 100 years ago, and that is 100% of manipulated environment.  And I just, yeah, I mean, and not to say, Oh, we should just not do any, that's not what I'm suggesting but I would say, I think we're kind of doing the same thing but maybe making ourselves feel better about it in some ways, like, Oh, I'm managing for this  
**[0:50:01-0:50:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:50:01):**  much percent canopy cover of sage, and this much percent of blue bunch grass and this percent of, you know, x, y, z and once I achieve those things that's what this landscape was supposed to look like 100 150 years ago.  And ultimately, I mean we might be managing under the same context of manipulation but in a feel good manner, right, like, Oh, this is what NRCS says is climax vegetation.  If we can get there without the use of fossil fuels and machinery, if we can get there only using our biological tools.  
**[0:50:38-0:51:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:50:38):**  I say that's a win. But as soon as we start hearing other tools out of that toolbox. That's when or that's when your point total starts to go down rapidly.  Yeah, well, and I mean let's, let's just be. I mean, the butterflies and rainbows feels good but let's just be realistic is we're very consumptive organisms and this planet is never going to look the same as before we entered it, you know, but you know that's  not to say, like absolutely every step we can make towards perennial populations and ground cover all these things. Absolutely. Sometimes I just wonder though if we're actually achieving what historically it was truthfully present.  
**[0:51:23-0:51:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:51:23):**  What is it our friend Dave Pratt likes to say, there's no use hitting bull's eyes if you're aiming at the wrong target.  So, let's talk about Katie.  Where are you from, and how did you get to Coral, Wyoming.  
**[0:51:45-0:52:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:51:45):**  Yeah, I was raised in northwestern Oklahoma, by a tiny town called Alene, but Woodward is kind of the closest population.  I know where Alene is, I know where we're really Woodward's two hours away I used to go down there the sale barn. Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah that's okay, that's right. I forget that you're that close.  Yeah, so I was raised out there I was raised on a yearling outfit.  
**[0:52:15-0:53:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:52:15):**  We actually bought cattle out of Georgia growing up, that was our thing southeast cattle so boy did we grow up knowing how to.  Unfortunately doctor and, you know, all those things. But we made a shift and trying to remember what year it was. I was in high school and my dad and I, we sold out of yearlings and my dad and I actually partnered on a whole bunch of cows went to college,  started to be business with my dad did that from college went to college at a&m Texas a&m did animal science and rural entrepreneurship ag economics, the best program, the best educational pursuit of actually ever had was the rural economics program,  
**[0:53:02-0:53:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:53:02):**  there at Texas a&m Dr. Reister.  I'm still involved with that program and still travel down there once or twice a year is just the greatest program.  Anyways, and we sold beef for a while and then I decided to get busy so I kind of ran that for my dad for a while and then once I got out of school and went to TCU ranch management and did their masters program there, which I don't recommend  
**[0:53:34-0:54:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:53:34):**  I was convinced that I was going to go, well no I was I would not recommend doing the master's level there's like the regular certificate and then the master's and I was convinced I needed all these credits that I was going to be used and it literally  almost killed me but next time I see I'll have to ask what you really think about PC use range management program.  Oh, no, no, no.  
**[0:54:07-0:54:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:54:07):**  But there are nine months. Anyways, so out of there I actually consulted for a little bit.  And then I ended up on a ranch.  Managing a ranch there. We went from, I don't know, I guess I didn't have my soul of the beef, the run the never ending sprint of selling beef and I, we went from winning the first calves within my first two weeks there to selling beef at a wholesale level  
**[0:54:44-0:55:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:54:44):**  within six months, built a facility. Oh, it was.  Oh man, did that for a while, couple years to three years.  And it just was not sustainable when I left they hired five people to do what I was doing. Okay, like that's how it was, it was a lot.  
**[0:55:04-0:55:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:55:04):**  Definitely was an excellent life lesson and how to appropriately manage my time and to create boundaries and learn to say no and not have to be in charge of everything.  I've learned that one a little late too. Yeah, it's so hard. I still struggle.  Yeah, and then I actually consulted for a while and traveled around and I actually ended up. I'm just looking initially to consult up here. I met a gentleman in New Mexico while doing some consulting out there.  
**[0:55:38-0:56:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:55:38):**  And he told me about this ranch and what was going on and Jason's a great.  It's a very ethical land owner.  He manages investments but he has a strong strong land ethic. And that was something that was really attractive to me because it was somebody who actually had a strong land ethic but wanted to make money, not just do something that makes you feel good and don't  
**[0:56:01-0:56:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:56:01):**  worry about the cost.  So anyways, I ended up coming up here a couple times and Jason I visited quite a bit and ended up interviewing and I actually ended up up here from that.  We've been here almost three years now. So third full season.  
**[0:56:18-0:56:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:56:18):**  And it has been just the most enormous learning experience for these landscapes and getting to be involved in industry and trade and so many other parts of the US and it's definitely allowed me to develop the ability, I mean to trade to identify those undervalued  areas and Cora is so unique because it just helps you create so much value.  That's the one thing Cora really has going other than super strong grass it creates a value otherwise everything else pretty much works against you here, but you go anywhere in the country and ranch.  
**[0:56:59-0:57:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:56:59):**  Hate this question.  So, that is such, yeah.  Yeah, I need to be careful what I say.  
**[0:57:10-0:57:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:57:10):**  I think cattle can be managed wonderfully in the West, and in the mountains.  I do think that there's a lot of agencies on people that vastly need to improve on that.  That being said, these landscapes are really hard. They're just really hard, you know, they have all the rules going against you, gravity distance precip, you know all the rules of thumb for ranching are pretty much thumbs down when you get up into the West  
**[0:57:41-0:57:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:57:41):**  and the Rocky Mountains, especially.  That being said, it is a lot of fun.  But my answer is ultimately be Kansas, Oklahoma, northern Texas.  
**[0:57:53-0:58:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:57:53):**  It makes so much sense for so many reasons but you know production capacity wise ecologically all those things cost of production into it's such an interesting thing to me, because you have so much opportunity available all around you to the east and the  west for the right trade, you're sitting in the T of the value corridor, you know, and you have access to both sides, which is so fascinating because there's rarely a place like typically you get far enough west where your box to the west or you're far  enough to the east that your box east because you're dipping back into those central cattle, but that is such an interesting area to me, because you kind of have two different places where you can make it work.  
**[0:58:43-0:59:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:58:43):**  So the West is in a drought versus the east is wet versus this versus that the timing is never the same and when that value is available either.  So, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, but it sure is fun up here though.  I was.  
**[0:59:01-0:59:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:59:01):**  So what I'm thinking about right now is I, I remember the wisdom from probably 1520 years ago, that said, if you want to ranch west of 100th meridian. It's going to be hard.  And I think that line keeps moving to the east. Yes.  Somebody told me, I think it was my dad told me he was talking to Wally Olson the other day, you know Wally don't you.  
**[0:59:25-0:59:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:59:25):**  Yeah.  And Uncle Wally said that he thought that he wasn't going to do a whole lot of business West the highway was to interstate 35 anymore. This is just too inconsistent and to dry west of 35, and I'm like, well, crap that's 100 miles.  Yeah, but I, the point about.  
**[0:59:45-1:00:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=0:59:45):**  Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas is well taken, and I think it was my friend Hobbs said this like, because he just moved from Oregon last fall.  Little, little under a year ago.  He got rid of his, he got rid of the place in Oregon he moved to Lufkin, Texas.  
**[1:00:05-1:00:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:00:05):**  Oh, he can graze year round.  There's population close by.  He's from the country. The summer's not terrible.  
**[1:00:16-1:00:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:00:16):**  I mean, it kind of makes sense you know like, yeah, how's he doing socially and left him.  Probably about like he was doing an Oregon. Okay. Okay.  I don't know, I don't know, maybe I'll have to get back on the show and talk about how much of an outcast, talk about his experiences at the Lufkin coffee shop and feed store. Yeah, yeah.  
**[1:00:42-1:00:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:00:42):**  He's a, he's one of those Korean tea people like me. He likes his horn cattle. And, of course, when he does that he's moving on four times a day you can only imagine what the neighbors think.  Oh, yeah.  Oh yeah. Yeah.  
**[1:00:58-1:01:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:00:58):**  I know Hobbs well enough he probably doesn't give much of a crap about what they say about him at the coffee shop.  There you go. He probably drives by with his French press and laughs at him anyway.  Good policy.  
**[1:01:14-1:01:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:01:14):**  So, trading, you keep talking about trading.  So tell me what do you, what do you mean by trading.  So basically, I mean what I how I create value, and what I spend my time doing is basically figuring out how many undervalued animals, can I purchase hold for a long enough time in Cora.  
**[1:01:40-1:02:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:01:40):**  Most of the time. Let's use core to keep it simple in Cora that I can get closer to that fall board get stronger and stronger basis.  Basically, okay, looking at my snow tell how much snowpack I have how much because that's going to determine everything. How many can I buy how many are available where that I can warehouse.  I don't care what they do. I mean I do not care if they put on a half pound. I don't care.  
**[1:02:08-1:02:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:02:08):**  I honestly probably rather than do that have lighter cattle to bring in that are going to do better but I can stock more of them.  And then, which I do end up buying heavy cattle a lot of the time, but they're really green and bring them here and okay, how long can I hold them to get them towards that fall value to lower my basis Chris, and how many can I optimize doing that with.  And basically it's that ridiculous saying that always confuses everybody like you make the money when you buy them, you know, it's 100% true. That's all I do.  
**[1:02:46-1:03:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:02:46):**  And it's been quite a network of people to develop, and I try to make sure nobody has a crossover territory.  But I like I have a Southwest Idaho guy have a Western Utah guy have to California guys have got an Oregon guy got a Northern Arizona guy, and these are order buyers right.  Yep. And it's pretty.  
**[1:03:08-1:03:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:03:08):**  Interesting because I don't get to check my cattle super regular, but my crew on the ground or require a video off the truck. Everybody's tagged to a source that's specific to a location and specific to the buyer.  And then everybody has to be on an inside pasture system and basically monitored for x period of time. And then all the doctoring because there's so many calves I don't care about if it's number 2318, you know, whatever, I just want the guy's name that  I want to be on that bottom, and where he came from.  
**[1:03:40-1:03:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:03:40):**  And then everybody gets scored.  What percentage of the sickness Did you have what percentage of death loss Did you have. And then at the end, the cup pile what percentage of the cuts Did you buy.  And that's kind of how I manage all of them.  
**[1:03:55-1:04:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:03:55):**  If there is anything off the track that's just like, Oh my gosh, this is ridiculous. Why would you try to slip this in on me. I'll just send them back I'll call the guys on the ground I'm like, cut him out, even if it's one put them back, not doing this.  Order buyers hate it when you send it back on the truck so angry, so angry, they never will do it again. You know, and don't get me wrong like I get if there's 20 coming through the ring and there's one stinker it's like, okay, but if this is a repetitive issue.  Yeah, I mean that's what kills us is how many cuts we ultimately end up with it's, it's three hours three and a half hours to the sale barn up here, which blows my mind to the closest sale barn, three and a half hours.  
**[1:04:37-1:05:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:04:37):**  Isn't that nuts. You got to go over the mountain so you're like, just burn in the fuel. You don't go with the gooseneck I hire a semi to take all my cuts, two or three trips.  I could. I was just sitting here trying to think of how many big auctions I could hit in three hours. Yes, I mean, yes, it's, it's so it is so amazing how like you want to talk about issues in the West but how limited the resources are that's available,  like a sale barn, you can't get cake. You might not even be able to get fence posts, you can't get a cake theater. I couldn't find a no till drill in the western half of Wyoming, or the eastern side of Idaho.  
**[1:05:16-1:06:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:05:16):**  I mean, it's just like resources that we're so used to I think down south and are so commonly available, that's just, it's not how it works up here. You mean there's not a tractor supply in in core that you could just run down to buy a pallet of post and wire  so there's a so there's a Ridley's but basically how it works is when the truck comes across I at the entire or not Ridley's it's what do they call it your bomb guards bomb guards is the tractor supply of the north if you ever see one stop on in.  But once, so they only want to send so many trucks because populations are so small. Basically it's like well if they have room by the time the truck gets to the end of the interstate and there's some still on there.  
**[1:06:02-1:06:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:06:02):**  We'll get you some, but it might be this month or next month.  And it's like lady, I need this yesterday.  That doesn't happen.  
**[1:06:13-1:06:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:06:13):**  So, mechanic to get a mechanic to work on the tractors, the neighbors, we will pull our money together and basically create a list of stops, because it takes so far to get the john Deere cat guy or kabota whoever to get them out that like four or five of us  will have a little call chain and I'll keep a sticky note of who has how much work before we can get a mechanic to come out.  It's, I'm telling you it's like 100 years ago up here. It's just, it's slow. Just resources are not available.  
**[1:06:48-1:07:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:06:48):**  Do you think that learning how to live with less is going to insulate you from future risk of more supply chain disruptions. Oh, for sure. After living up here I'm have gotten really confident and how little a yearling actually needs and how much more you can actually  do with your animal husbandry, and really you're grazing.  I've gotten really into like Fred stuff red prevents all of his work, and these big bunch of yearlings, knock on wood, I have never lost more than 1% to actual death, loss or sickness.  
**[1:07:22-1:07:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:07:22):**  Let me find some wood, I need to do some knocking on that crazy. I think the power of the forage base up here. Anytime I've lost more than 1%.  It's like been attributable to like a cold snap or a weather event or, or some other event it's not a nutritional thing or disease thing that's ever happened to me.  Yeah, I feel like trading yearlings you can really run into it like so my first year I had a whole bunch of Hawaiians, you want to talk about a wild experience.  
**[1:07:54-1:08:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:07:54):**  We ran a whole bunch of Hawaiian cattle, and they were.  I mean they were so sick when they showed up, I thought, this is, this is going to be.  How long does it take to ship them from the islands to the mainland.  
**[1:08:12-1:08:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:08:12):**  So that's what's interesting. They used to come on a ship. And that was like, they put them on steam them back across as fast as possible. And I can't remember what the total timetable was but it.  I mean it was not good, like it was several days kind of thing. And then now they do them on C one 30s crazy. They have, yes, yes, they have these crates, they're giant they look like a shipping container but they have all these holes per for it.  And I'm all up, load them in there, and they show up within like four or five hours and are dumped out on the coast.  
**[1:08:50-1:09:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:08:50):**  But by the time that the Hawaiians actually get them rounded up to get them down to the airport like all of that, it's probably a couple of days. It's like a 2436 hour deal, the ones that live, you can't kill them, but I imagine that airplane right is a little  Yeah, the shrink on them is crazy well and so this is super interesting when you buy cattle in Hawaii there's no shrink put into the cattle, and there's no slide. So when you go out and bid cattle in Hawaii, you just look at the whole year round bulls  You look at the whole year round bulls in their calf crop in their breeding 12 months out of the year because they're on green grass year round. You look at the whole calf crop and offer a price per pound on the whole.  
**[1:09:39-1:10:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:09:39):**  Yeah.  And then there's some cuts are allowed but basically if you start to cutting on them too deep like I know a lot of guys that they weren't ever allowed to come back like you pretty much have to take the whole thing.  There's no slide no shrink. There's no sort of check weight, you literally just they drive you through their cattle and then you just make a bit. Okay, cow trader Katie.  
**[1:10:01-1:10:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:10:01):**  We got to pause for a second. Okay shrink I get which is the amount that they amount of weight that they're going to lose in shipping which is, you know, a pretty consistent thing.  Explain slide to me in in words that a fifth grader can understand slide. So let's say I put my cattle in us, they're going to weigh 700 pounds.  Brian weigh 700 pounds Brian, and they come in and they weigh 720 pounds shrunk, put a 3% on them on the ground and we'd 720. So we have 20 pounds point two of 100 weight that they're going to be over.  
**[1:10:33-1:11:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:10:33):**  Typically what I see, it makes me crazy but you can't get a fair slide anymore. You usually see a halfway up halfway down, so you'll see like an eight for.  So for every, however many pounds there over, you're going to slide eight cents backwards for however many pounds they're under you're going to slide four cents, the other way.  So you really get discounted. You don't create more value necessarily having a lighter animal, you do but only half as much value they're not going to give it all to you.  
**[1:11:03-1:11:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:11:03):**  So if you had 20 pounds that were over, you know, times your eight cents, we sold them to you at a buck 50, you know, it'd be a buck 50 minus that what point, one six, and we'd adjust our price there so 720 times 1.4, whatever that would be for eight,  whatever it is.  Does that make sense.  
**[1:11:25-1:11:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:11:25):**  I think so. I'll listen again when I'm editing and actually write down the math, but yeah, I think that makes sense. Yeah, so your point two times your eight cents and then a buck 50 minus that adjustment would be the price you get per pound.  So it'd be like what one point, a cent and a half per pound discount. But yeah, 1.6 basically per pound discount.  You put that back on 100 weight so it'd be a buck 50 minus that 1.6 you'd be at 148.4 per hundred.  
**[1:11:58-1:12:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:11:58):**  Versus if it had gone the other way in your favor, rather than obtaining that fully value you'd only get half as much.  Yeah, I get that.  I've looked at superior and I see that slide symbol and sometimes it's balanced and sometimes it's unbalanced so now I know I typically if it's unbalanced typically if it's unbalanced.  
**[1:12:22-1:12:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:12:22):**  You're going to have to have a pretty serious weight stop on there, or I've seen buyers really bulk at cattle.  I normally offer it if I offer the eight four. I really like to do no weight stop but man the order buyers are just getting to where they want to 30 pound both ways, or they just don't like to touch them and they still want the eight four.  It's like this year I'm afraid that's how I'm going to have to let mine go.  
**[1:12:51-1:13:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:12:51):**  Well, you know order buyers got to eat too.  I get it. I get it.  And if you want to do the sell by either you're going to be spending six days a week in the barn yourself, or you got to have guys that you can trust to do it and that's, that's kind of the problem I've always seen with it.  
**[1:13:10-1:13:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:13:10):**  Like, there's all kinds of opportunities in the beef and cattle business to generate extra value, but the trouble is, I can't clone myself, and it takes, you know, I have to be, you know, to the extent, I got to be the guy doing that.  Big problem I've always seen with the sell by is, how do you trust an order buyer.  How do you find the right order buyers and how do you trust the order buyers that sounds like you came up with a great system to.  
**[1:13:39-1:13:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:13:39):**  I don't know, grade them or performance.  I grade them and they don't want to be.  It's kind of a pride thing, you know, they don't want to have something turned back on to another really great thing is if you're not sure about someone.  
**[1:13:58-1:14:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:13:58):**  You don't want to do it with like some, which is very hypocritical of me but like some really young guy, but all he wants to do is drive around in his truck and hit a barn every day and see some buddies on you don't want that you want in my experience you  want the old guy who's been doing it since the dawn of time, the guy can't even tell you what's in the sale catalog that day because he can't text you the picture you got to call the sale barn secretary with that's who you want.  And the odds are that guy probably has some money if he knows what he's doing. And I found the best way to make sure everybody's interests are mutually aligned.  
**[1:14:37-1:15:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:14:37):**  Hey, let's let's 5050 on 250 head. This first year, let's do 500, let's 5050. Okay. And most of the guys would be like, Well, why do I want to do that I just want to buy them for you.  Well, I'll still pay you to buy them full price I'll still pay you, you know, a buck 100.  And I will finance the cattle but I want seven and a half percent back on my finances, the cattle purchase and then you're going to pay all the direct costs.  
**[1:15:04-1:15:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:15:04):**  And that's going to be how we settle up in the end. That will tell you real quick. What kind of me is if they're just immediately like, Oh, no, no, I don't want you to buy for me.  Because they're going to try to teach it some point. Yes, yeah, somewhere, somewhere. Yeah, yeah, that's, but that's a really good one. I found anything been trading cattle long enough, I don't have enough money to trade 200 steers 250 steers you got a problem.  You know, that's probably shouldn't do anything with them.  
**[1:15:32-1:15:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:15:32):**  I'm a Central Texas buyer. I know a guy.  You might like him and he's an older guy he just, you know, that's one or two a week and that's some video trades.  We'll talk later. There we go. So how did you figure out the whole sell by marketing.  
**[1:15:53-1:16:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:15:53):**  Um,  I just kind of had to do it. So when I took this job.  Jason the gentleman Jason space who owns this ranch who hired me he is just, he's a great guy but, um, he, he.  
**[1:16:13-1:16:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:16:13):**  He's really involved in the sense of he wants to understand ecological return but from a business perspective. He's really great and offering a lot of autonomy, and off the bat, it was pretty much like by x thousands of steers and make me this amount of my money.  And that was it.  I guess I better figure out how to do that. So yeah, so I got really really into. Well, number one, we have a Halifax guy who good old Patrick Linnell I think that guy like quakes in his boots when I call because he's like this girl.  
**[1:16:47-1:17:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:16:47):**  I'm like so tired of me. So I have all these crazy ideas but Patrick listen to what I thought up last night. We'll talk it through but basically it's just incessantly being in the market in any form possible cattle facts, watching, that's when I couldn't  figure out how to get the camera on when you're on because I was sitting in my office working but I'm watching the superior yearlings that sell today.  And now, um, it's just constantly being in the know watching the cash trade watching the board. I literally I mean I have it on my phone, always refreshing.  
**[1:17:20-1:17:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:17:20):**  What's the move.  And then I think the second part of that that I've learned to is being disciplined, like I calculate my thresholds. I figure them and then I go to bed.  There's no motion to this, and I don't give my guys, I think we're people getting a lot of problems is like, Oh, but if you're close. This is price on your spin, but if you're close and they look really good and they look like they have a lot of value  
**[1:17:42-1:18:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:17:42):**  I trust your judgment, if you need another dollar to like you spend one more dollar you're paying for it so spend it, you know, and I think that that's the big thing that I was able to learn and like sticking to the discipline, like, just the fundamentals  pays out astronomically especially at first I was so scared I was like, I'm not going to get this place stocked was a super high market when I was trying to buy back my first time.  And so that was what really made me start looking I was like, I have to find something to average this out. So even if I need to buy some cattle to make my head days right on my price on my lease, then okay I gotta find x number undervalued and be dang sure  
**[1:18:25-1:18:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:18:25):**  I'm going to buy them, and then have the right blend right do I have so many of these that I can blend with these and shaping those cattle right because every single buyer you have and every single rep you have will want to just pick them apart.  And before people come look at my cattle always sound like these are the rules. You cannot sort like this you cannot take these out. There's x number I know of these, you know, like, I think I have a truckload of her first, you cannot touch them if there's  a truckload in the cut pile unless he has a bad eye. He's getting on the truck.  
**[1:18:57-1:19:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:18:57):**  That's how we're creating value. So I think it's, you know, balancing your, your quality and using discipline, even when it's just like, oh, you just have to have nerves of steel sometimes you just let them go all day long and a half cent pass where you  want to be, but it'll pay off and I think that's what I really had to learn more than anything.  Did you have it like did you read Bud Williams or have you been to Wally's sell by school or any of that stuff. No. So, um, one of my best friends went to Wally school, and I give me all your notes, because I've never had time to go.  
**[1:19:37-1:20:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:19:37):**  Which is ridiculous. I need to go. You know who I really want to go to there's a guy in Nebraska now. Do you know him. Let me look him up. He's the. He does a trade school up there now, and I've just heard phenomenal things I've talked to him over the  phone a few times. And I really want to go see him do his school. Well now I'm waiting for this name, even have my pen ready so I can write down another suggestion list.  I'm looking.  
**[1:20:07-1:20:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:20:07):**  Yeah, he's, he's a new Doug Ferguson. Okay.  Yeah, and I have just heard the greatest things about him not that I mean, Wally school is great.  But Mr cattle master.com cracks me up. But, um, yeah, I really want to go to his school.  
**[1:20:29-1:20:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:20:29):**  And it's pretty intense it's three beats three and a half days, which is kind of long for one of those deals but he's apparently just really great. So I would like to go to his school.  But now that it's actually been said out loud.  At least two other people have written in and said hey you should have Doug Ferguson on one really, though, yeah, I guess I have to do that. Yeah, I'm pretty sure we're I'm friends with the right Doug Ferguson on Facebook because I do see him post  
**[1:20:58-1:21:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:20:58):**  about cows and marketing once in a while, he's in Nebraska he lives in Nebraska. So, if he's in Nebraska it's probably the right dad, he might even listen.  So Doug if you're out there listening drop me an email if I haven't already sent you one and let's get together and do an episode.  Yeah, and I'm the annoying girl that never registered for next week so I'm selling cattle instead.  
**[1:21:20-1:21:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:21:20):**  I emailed him twice. So that was good. In the winter. In the winter. Yeah, well, maybe, maybe if we get a day off, we'll go take care of that.  Yeah.  So tell me about dogs, you use a lot of dogs.  
**[1:21:37-1:21:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:21:37):**  Yeah, we do.  We honest to goodness would never get out of our forest permits if we didn't have dogs. And I use my little girl here she's, um, I use colleagues myself.  A lot of people don't like them because they say they don't bite enough but in this country you don't need a dog that bites.  
**[1:21:58-1:22:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:21:58):**  You need a dog that has really good feel. That makes sense and I'm used to again, down south and I keep saying that but it seems like the trend down there I have seen dogs that have a whole lot of bite, which I get that you have brush and.  I think I think I think training dogs with more bite is the wrong direction, but I also don't use a dog every day. Yeah, I mean there's applications for it, don't get me wrong.  But the thing here is, I mean we can go out with our dogs, and three of us could move easily, probably 700 close to 1000 steers between dogs and three people horseback.  
**[1:22:41-1:23:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:22:41):**  So many miles and horses and save so many miles on people. And then a lot of our stuff in the forest we run in a lot of them aspen sagebrush complex type broken up moths of them if you will.  And again, you might be gathering, a 5000 acre pasture and you can't go trot over to every aspen mock and look around in there.  So I think dogs really really help with that training them with if I say go out and search, I mean, my dog will be gone. I mean she hunts for them until she finds them comes back.  
**[1:23:20-1:23:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:23:20):**  And that's the big thing, and you know too I used to be super against dogs in the cells down on the meadows doing the high density, and I strongly disagree with that now.  I don't want this dog to where I can get her out in front of them so moving them by myself there's that, you know the argument of move your cattle don't drag them, or however it is people say that but like don't trade them necessarily to the whistle  or to the buggy, because they just get sour and they just run past you and they don't keep eating they just are running around especially yearlings, you don't get a hold of them, you just open the gate and let mayhem commence.  
**[1:23:59-1:24:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:23:59):**  That's one thing that I found with this dog is, if I can get her around front of them, and just bend the front of them, like they're bringing them back around into me.  Those cattle be grazing before I leave, which is not necessarily a problem that we've had in the past it's just like there always seems that there's more walking for a while before they really think about eating.  But she's gotten into where I can still be in that gate she'll run out in front of 2000 head and then the front end of them, and they're turned back eating before I've got the wire gate closed, just, just shift their attention from their mode  
**[1:24:41-1:25:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:24:41):**  back to direction and maybe look for a bite to eat. Yes.  Yeah. And I think the application that I always saw that was wrong is when in cells for me, just for us and how we do it. If the dogs behind them, sell the cell.  Not a good thing for the bulk of the herd. Now if you've got to clean up, you know, tell her to bring them to the gate because you don't want to be driving your four wheeler everywhere. Great. But it seems to me if you're moving the herd with a dog behind them when they already want to move anyways,  
**[1:25:16-1:25:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:25:16):**  probably a little too much energy. Yep, I would agree with that.  I was thinking about like, how to talk about how we move because just had to do one the other day that I'm thinking of.  They were already kind of on the side, we're moving from a 75 acre paddock to a 40 acre paddock.  
**[1:25:37-1:25:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:25:37):**  Okay, not a big deal at a 20 foot gate and barbed wire to go through not even hot wire to beat.  I don't know why this happens but like it always seems to be when I have a scheduled move that's been on a grazing chart.  And I go out that morning to do it. Yeah, standing by the correct gate.  
**[1:25:56-1:26:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:25:56):**  Oh, that's not where I thought this was going Brian. That's happened the last three or four times. Where did you think it was going? I thought it was going quite the opposite way.  They would all leave and go somewhere else and go off plan. Oh, that happens too but not lately. So it's just last year when they're trying to graze the long pasture.  But no, they were kind of all there by the gate. So I like to approach, I like to come to the herd from the pasture that they're going into.  
**[1:26:27-1:26:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:26:27):**  Okay, yeah. So I go into the pasture they're coming into and I come and so they see me coming from there.  Go up in the gate and depending on where the cattle are, maybe I'll go in and I'll call them. I got a good set of lungs.  Just yell, come on cows, and they all start to come slowly. And what I've been training my intern to do is to go with the initial group or lead the initial group through the gate.  
**[1:26:59-1:27:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:26:59):**  But then after you go through the gate to come in and turn around and set and that will depend on where you set in relation to the gate or the fence or whatever, you know, those cattle will come in and they'll bend.  Like back up the, I see what you're saying. Or not back up or just your presence there like if you're a little farther off in the distance, kind of centered up on the gate, they'll kind of come up to us.  And as they get closer, they'll start to settle in and go back to grazing.  
**[1:27:29-1:27:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:27:29):**  It's, yeah.  And maybe it's because I've had like, and the herd that was on it, they've been here since October.  I mean, we've probably got 40, 50, 60 odd moves on them since October.  
**[1:27:42-1:27:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:27:42):**  And they just, they just settle in. They don't run to the gate. They don't run through the gate.  That's nice.  And I think that maybe so what you're seeing is behavior in your lens. Like I said, I'm dealing with cows.  
**[1:27:57-1:28:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:27:57):**  Yeah, yeah.  I'm dealing with all older cows and, you know, these animals remember everything that's ever been done to them.  They remember everybody that's yelled at them, everybody that's thrown a rope at them. Everybody's stuck in with a hot shot.  
**[1:28:11-1:28:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:28:11):**  I think they have a very strong memory for that kind of thing.  And the better we are with our stockmanship and our husbandry about things like that.  You know, about where the dog is, where you are, and the energy you put into the herd just to get them through the gate.  
**[1:28:28-1:28:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:28:28):**  The more we pay attention to these things, the faster that they settle when we move them and the lower their stress level is.  Because we, when you're conscious of the energy you're putting in the herd, you're more conscious of their energy.  And it becomes a lot easier to notice like, oh, I did that.  
**[1:28:47-1:29:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:28:47):**  In effect, the ones right next to me. But it did scare some over in the middle and that caused a change in their behavior.  Yeah, yeah. No, absolutely.  Hey, I wanted to ask you about, I saw your video one time. Are you still a bat latch guy?  
**[1:29:02-1:29:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:29:02):**  I still have them. I haven't been using them.  What was your experience? Do you feel like with animal performance or animal behavior using them?  It took about two weeks.  
**[1:29:16-1:29:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:29:16):**  Oh, wow. Ten days to two weeks before all of them really got on the program.  And I've had, I've got experience putting training to different groups.  So I've only trained two different groups to bat latches.  
**[1:29:28-1:29:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:29:28):**  And we made a whole, we started, I think we were doing like 10 o'clock moves.  We were just having the bat latch open at 10. And then I read something that said, oh,  maybe your bricks is a little bit higher, closer to solar noon or a little after.  
**[1:29:46-1:29:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:29:46):**  So I was like, oh, that sounds like about two o'clock.  So we'll just aim for something in early afternoon that should be really close to peak photosynthesis.  And I just kind of scheduled on, settled on two o'clock.  
**[1:29:58-1:30:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:29:58):**  It took about, it took them a while to get used to it in the mornings.  But we'd already been moving them in the mornings. So it was a, it was a small change for them.  But instead of rolling up a piece of poly wire, they had to go through a fairly narrow gate.  
**[1:30:16-1:30:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:30:16):**  That's the biggest drawback to how I was using the bat latches.  Yeah, the springs aren't very long.  But there's other ways to skin the cat, right?  
**[1:30:25-1:30:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:30:25):**  So I've seen guys use those to pull the, to raise the fence up, use the spring and the bat latch.  Like you put the spring up on a pole and you have it come down to the fence and the bat latch is holding the, holding it down.  And then when the bat latch goes off, it pulls the fence up high enough that the cow can walk underneath of it.  
**[1:30:47-1:31:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:30:47):**  Nice. I've seen that done. I've seen them set to set to close a gate on the spring, like close a 10-foot gate using the spring, release the spring and it went and closed the gate.  So there's, they've got a lot of different uses.  So back to what I was saying.  
**[1:31:06-1:31:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:31:06):**  It took 7, 10, maybe two weeks.  It's about the longest it'll take them to get used to that bat latch. And with anything else, when you're transitioning to something that's totally unfamiliar to the cattle,  they're not going to know what to do with it the first couple times they see it. You're just going to have to show them.  
**[1:31:24-1:31:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:31:24):**  And for us, it was walking out. It was just being there when the latch opened and walking back and forth through the gate a couple times.  Something I think helped with that was on that spring gate, we put a bunch of flagging tape.  We put yellow and blue flagging tape on that spring gate.  
**[1:31:43-1:32:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:31:43):**  So that was another extra visual indicator that the fence wasn't there for the cattle.  And I have several videos of it.  As we kind of got down to the mid-summer, the first year we were using them and we were moving at two o'clock, it kind of got to be a game.  
**[1:32:03-1:32:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:32:03):**  To see if I could get out there and get in a position where they weren't paying attention to me and watch the gate open and watch them all move.  And I tell you, once they got used to it, once they understood what was going on with the bat latches and the polywire,  it was really cool to see that gate open and within two minutes, a hundred head of cattle were in a different paddock.  
**[1:32:30-1:32:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:32:30):**  Heads down, grazing. It was cool.  So did that answer your question about battling?  Yeah, well, you kind of gave some tips on training to them and thoughts how to use them different.  
**[1:32:45-1:33:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:32:45):**  Because that was one of my big concerns was the gate's not big enough.  And two yearlings, they're just so, you know, you never know who out of the 2,000 or 3,000, who is going to be standing there.  They can hear that thing. So that's, I think that the training curve or timeline.  
**[1:33:05-1:33:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:33:05):**  But the other good thing about yearlings is they're probably walking around.  So they're going to find it. I've used one a couple of times and they eventually moved themselves.  But we had some ding dongs that couldn't figure out how to get out once the main herd was on the other side.  
**[1:33:20-1:33:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:33:20):**  They decided to tear down polywire and we were creating bad habits for a period of time.  So it was like, OK, we're done with the batch latch thing for right now.  So we haven't tried it again yet, but we need to.  
**[1:33:33-1:33:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:33:33):**  I've got one herd approaching. One herd is heading towards the west end of my south side.  That's all set up for strip grazing. We'll be there in just a few more days and hopefully we'll be able to put post in the dirt.  Another week of 100 degrees without any moisture. I want to strip graze.  
**[1:33:59-1:34:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:33:59):**  I want to do some strip grazing this year while I've got some labor around for another month.  I don't know if we're going to be able to put step ins in the dirt.  It gets down to it just gets so dry you have to really hunt for the right clump of grass or the right plant crown or put it down.  
**[1:34:23-1:34:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:34:23):**  Hack off a frickin yucca plant and put it right down by the yucca plant where the root was.  I'm just afraid it'll get to where we're spending two, three hours to build 800 feet of pulley wire and it's just not making it work.  So we're going to investigate it. We're going to look at that and hopefully be able to make it work.  
**[1:34:45-1:35:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:34:45):**  Hopefully we'll get some rain. Hopefully we'll have a little bit of rain and we won't be able to struggle to put post in the dirt.  That would be great. So tell me about some of these other joint monitoring programs that you kind of mentioned earlier with BLM and Forest Service.  Yeah, so basically what we've been able to do is bring everybody together and say, hey, it's not that the way we're managing these landscapes is not working.  
**[1:35:13-1:35:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:35:13):**  It's that we could be doing so much better. And I think that was mutually agreed upon. You know, most of these Forest Service permits are severely understocked and then have areas of severe abuse from loafing and water and all those issues, topography and all that.  So we were actually able to get together and make the clear outcome objective of combining three forest permits into one herd, which would be huge, like just monumental if we were able to change that.  That's not a Forest Service and a BLM, that's just three different Forest Service?  
**[1:35:53-1:36:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:35:53):**  Yeah, three different Forest Service, which they all have different dates, they all have different stock numbers and densities and all these things. But it was, hey, we know that the cumulative value is this.  Why can't we combine and then manage within those permits to also meet some of those parameters? From the south end to the far north end, you know, the elevation is probably close to 3000 feet change.  So obviously, we need to start in the south end and work our way north and, you know, we acknowledge all those things and mutually agree. So we agreed on parameters the Forest Service would accept.  
**[1:36:26-1:36:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:36:26):**  I found to be beneficial and actually create value for the ranch and the conservation district found was easy enough to actually complete it because a lot of these places were having to pack in horseback.  It's not like you can take mule and take your five measuring tapes and, you know, whatever, all your five computers and yada yada.  You're packing everything on horse. Yeah, yeah.  
**[1:36:50-1:37:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:36:50):**  And then Game and Fish was able to agree, okay, this isn't affecting wildlife or is positively affecting wildlife.  So basically what we're doing is creating a baseline of we're set stock the same way we've always been this year. And we move our cattle a lot within the permits, like probably more than Forest Service wants us to but also last year was told we had the best  Forest Service permits in Sublette County after only three years of being here so I was like, you know what, we're on to something here folks. So that's the goal.  
**[1:37:22-1:38:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:37:22):**  And what we're going to start doing is combine the two northern most permits together which everybody would tell you is the most fragile, but they have way higher precip compared to the southern end.  They're just at a higher elevation and then combine the third and it'll be five years worth of monitoring. So you're one set stock same situation baseline monitoring your to initial combination of two northern most permits, your three second year of monitoring  on those two northern most permits, make a conclusion or defer to your four. So okay we don't see any negative change is that's their expectation that's what's really frustrating to not that we see any positive change but okay you're not destroying things  
**[1:38:05-1:38:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:38:05):**  out here so if you want to do this I guess we'll let you do it.  Yeah, then fourth year, they can defer and or allow us to bring in the third permit, but the ultimate design of the project is to combine them all.  And what's really interesting. I don't know if you're familiar with the green drift or the upper green, it's the largest cattle drive still intact in the United States, and what occurs.  
**[1:38:29-1:39:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:38:29):**  It's crazy. It occurs right out our gate they drive cattle at plus miles from the desert to the high country for the winter, or excuse me, gosh for the summer, they go winter on the desert.  And they basically come off of a massive BLM permit that is set stocked the same month, every year, go up, they do run four units up in the Forest Service and they do a really great job monitoring the cattle they have camp men living in TPS up there with  them all the time. There's 13,000 head of animals that come up this thing.  
**[1:39:02-1:39:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:39:02):**  Massive, it's massive, it runs basically you should get on a map after this call and look for coral Wyoming is and look for do voices, all of that acreage.  All of it.  And then they run them basically in four different units, and then each of those units has a pasture rotation system. But what's really interesting and one thing we've been talking about is how can this pilot project.  
**[1:39:25-1:39:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:39:25):**  Help to manage those cattle better to where they're not, they basically just have like some places only have a two pasture unit rotation, and they're in there every year.  They just switch which pasture they go into first, you know they split on rotation that's an oscillation. Yeah, no, it's not a rotation that's right.  It's exactly it's an oscillation.  
**[1:39:46-1:40:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:39:46):**  And the other massive issue that they have is predation. They plan to lose 15 to 20% to bear kill a year.  Yes. Okay, the writers can't hardly keep up with the cows to keep up with the bears to keep up with, you know, all this mostly pairs they're picking off calves.  But one of the huge things was okay what if we actually could prove you can improve your landscape, you can increase your stock numbers and oh hey by the way there's one herd, you know where they're at you know if the Grizzlies kill them, and they're  
**[1:40:17-1:40:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:40:17):**  probably not going to come in there with that many bunched cattle together it's usually a pair that's often alone.  They can get compensated but a forest writer has to identify the kill, and that's it's crazy. I've never learned so much about how to identify how to kill.  How to identify how something is killed and by what it's like crime scene investigation but animals, and they come up to it's called a wildlife investigator, they investigate theme the cause of death, and then you can get compensated.  
**[1:40:48-1:41:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:40:48):**  But hey, guess what the federal government is just funneling a whole bunch of money into paying people because of a mismanaged situation, so that they'll keep grazing up there.  Crazy.  Government paying people for mismanagement.  
**[1:41:03-1:41:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:41:03):**  Can you imagine that when have they ever done that.  So, anyways, the hope is that this project can actually create some real policy change for the county and accelerate the timeline. So basically if this project doesn't help or something else doesn't go through in the meantime, we're not going to see any  shift at all and management strategy for another 15 years, minimal.  
**[1:41:26-1:41:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:41:26):**  It's crazy. It's crazy and how many acres, how many acres how much water resource, you know, I mean not to get on the water resource, you know issue in the West and with the Colorado River packed but I mean it's about to be crazy enough they're not  going to have stock water allowances even out of a river that whole Colorado River compact situation.  I don't know if it's a can of worms.  
**[1:41:53-1:42:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:41:53):**  It's a powder keg that's about ready to explode powder keg.  I strongly feel.  I mean it's, it's basically so the so the issue is number one, everybody's let the water get so far down because we're watering golf courses and we're have Vegas in the desert and all this insanity and by the way, why the heck are we storing water  
**[1:42:15-1:42:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:42:15):**  in a reservoir in a desert, talk about evaporation all these issues that we have present. Okay. And it's gotten to the point so basically I can't remember the actual year formation so I don't want to say the wrong year but 19 something whenever the Colorado  River pack came in early 1900s, you have a water right past that 1900 and whatever, no water for you.  No water in agriculture, zero water. I'm not saying flood irrigation is a great thing. I am however saying that flood irrigation holds a heck of a lot of water in the soil and 70% of that water is an in stream return flow.  
**[1:42:54-1:43:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:42:54):**  What I see though, is a lot of those water rights that are past 1900 and whatever, make up a vast majority or quite a bit of production, you're going to see in the West, you know, a lot of quiet I think it's going to have some impact on some food supply.  The second thing is to people are actually going to be metered to their ditch levels, unless you are near a population center, nobody is metered to a ditch level.  Okay. And when so and so's grandpa put that in with the mule team. 100 years ago, and he said, Oh, I think it's pulling about x amount of CFS out of this source on these dates.  
**[1:43:31-1:44:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:43:31):**  He had no clue. Okay. And that ditch, there's probably no sub table anywhere near what it was 100 years ago. Okay, so you probably need three times the legal limit of water.  So this is what's really interesting. Even if a water right stays attached to a landscape, many, many, many water rights in the Western going to become dysfunctional.  You won't actually be able to use the water in proper place, because there's not there. It's not there it's just not there. And I'm not saying that it's the most ethical use it 100% could be improved.  
**[1:44:09-1:44:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:44:09):**  But what's absolutely insane is you're going to drain the sponge, you're going to take it downstream, you're going to put it in a lake in a desert, you're going to give the people of Vegas power, and the people are to sauna golf course, what return is there on that.  Well, it's, it's certainly contributes to the economy of Tucson with that golf course and you know all the people that we can live there and you know all the fruit trees that we get on desert Southwest, how are you going to have a drink water.  You know, I mean, people I just what.  
**[1:44:41-1:45:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:44:41):**  So you know the rancher can cry victim all day long. Oh, I won't be able to have hey oh I won't be able to this, you know, doctor management, whatever. My argument is, if you don't put the water in the ground and store it, you're only going to lose more and more  and more, and guess what, eventually there's not going to be any more water to come downstream.  So, earlier I brought up that you know the the extirpation of the beaver for European hats.  
**[1:45:10-1:45:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:45:10):**  And I understand that I feel like I have a good understanding of that in the context of the plain states, like from the Front Range East to the Mississippi. Okay, I'm not gonna, not gonna say I'm an expert from Texas to North Dakota, either, like,  I've got a pretty narrow, like narrow circle that I feel like I know a little bit about. But what I wonder is what what the Colorado River look like and say 1650 or 1500 or 1800 before they started messing with it.  Oh yeah, and how much more water, not only the river itself, but the surrounding acreage again the sponge.  
**[1:45:52-1:46:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:45:52):**  Yeah, and that's water did you like that. And that's kind of what I'm getting at with the beavers. Yes, because they come in at my only look like there's an extra foot of water there.  Really done is they've moved that that water table up several feet. Yeah, the whole frickin valley. Yep.  They create the sponge.  
**[1:46:13-1:46:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:46:13):**  Yeah, they store the surface water they trap the erosion, and there's only one. If you've got sediment suspended in water there's only one way to get it out, you got to slow the water down. How do you do that with a dam.  Yep. Anyway, now what we're going to do is leave it all in to rip through there. Again, to go to a storage in the middle of the desert. And we're not going to spread any of it.  The thing that blows my mind about dams is yeah they're sediment traps.  
**[1:46:45-1:46:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:46:45):**  So we build all these dams on the rivers in the West, I mean, even in the Midwest, everyone we built dams everywhere, and we're tapping for hydro power and recreation and drinking water.  Yeah.  What happens when they fill up with dirt.  
**[1:46:59-1:47:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:46:59):**  Yeah. Oh, it's, yes.  What happens when they fill up with dirt or there's just even no water there.  There's a, we'll get right back to the Colorado River, there's a there's a reservoir in Kansas up close to Manhattan, Kansas home of Kansas State University, called Tuttle Creek.  
**[1:47:18-1:47:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:47:18):**  Tuttle Creek reservoir it was built back in the 60s in there.  I think I know exactly what you're talking about.  Well, upstream of Tuttle Creek there's a lot of commodity farming, and they haven't changed any of their soil management or pesticide or herbicide management practices.  
**[1:47:34-1:48:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:47:34):**  And I saw a study I think it's probably two years old now that the US Army Corps of Engineers spends about 10 times the amount of money per year that it originally cost to build the dam 60 years ago, and 10 times that every year to drain or to dredge out  less than 10% of the sediment that accumulates every year. Yeah, like, that sounds right.  How can you do that. Well, the scary thing is like they figured that it's already 60% full of dirt. Oh yeah, yeah, well and not to mention every other chemical and you know who knows what that's coming off of those farm fields down in there.  
**[1:48:18-1:48:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:48:18):**  All those chemicals are perfectly safe Katie, they're perfectly safe they have no effect on human population whatsoever.  Oh, crazy.  And they're pretty good for sale too if you believe that that was all true.  
**[1:48:33-1:49:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:48:33):**  So, you know, we're talking about Colorado River and water in the West. And, A, I think one of the big problems is Colorado River flows were vastly overestimated, or at least that's what they're saying now.  And I can definitely buy that, that, you know, we vastly overestimated the flows, and why wasn't that thought of in the first place like okay, if we're saying the river flows this much.  We don't ever want to plan to take all of that water out of the river. No allocated every drop that was supposed to be in the river.  
**[1:49:07-1:49:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:49:07):**  And it turns out it's what like 30 to 50% more water than is there on average. Yeah, it's crazy. Well into I just don't think, again we were seeing so much less water in the system over time and I don't think that you know there wasn't the hot topic  of environmental change, or, you know, all those discussions, if you will, voice to facilitate some of that thought of, oh, hey maybe we do do destructive things to the environment and hey, maybe we are going to have less water available.  I think that was part of the major negligence in the calculus in my opinion.  
**[1:49:47-1:49:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:49:47):**  You want to know my hot take on what it's caused.  What.  Okay.  
**[1:49:52-1:50:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:49:52):**  So, the Southwest that we desert diverted all the Colorado River to make irrigation in New Mexico, Arizona.  We green the desert we grow all kinds of crap down there.  That was back in the 30s 40s 50s and 60s. Now what is it, it's desertified because over farmed it all the fertility is gone. We overgrazed it.  
**[1:50:16-1:50:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:50:16):**  I mean there's places in New Mexico that that lost two to three feet of topsoil in the last hundred years.  Okay, cool.  Before that, were there beavers there.  
**[1:50:31-1:51:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:50:31):**  You know what I mean, I don't know and I don't I've never even been to Arizona so I'm not even going to like try to conjecture, but it's a thought like, were there beavers in the southwest did they have water stopped up where they control in the water cycle.  What did it look like in Arizona in the 16 1700s, like, was it green was their grass, or has it been a desert. This whole time.  I don't think we know and I don't think we'll ever know, just like, will we ever really understand if 60 million bison was a sustainable number for the planes or if they're headed for resource crash.  
**[1:51:10-1:51:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:51:10):**  Sure.  Hard to say.  But it's, it's pretty easy to see that we've definitely broken the water cycle in the desert Southwest.  
**[1:51:20-1:51:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:51:20):**  And my thought is, we've broken it so bad, and it's so desertified and degraded.  Now bear with me that kicks up a lot of dust that gets picked up by trade winds and gets blown right over where I'm at right where you grew up.  And is that why we've been seeing.  
**[1:51:40-1:52:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:51:40):**  I would just call it, I wouldn't call it climate change or drought because the southwest has been in drought for 15 years, but it's a creeping drought. So is that climate change.  Are we settling into a new normal.  And is it because we screwed up the Southwest, so bad that it's that it's effects are just going to keep creeping north and east.  
**[1:52:05-1:52:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:52:05):**  Yeah, that's really interesting conversation, the search just talking to someone the other day about, I need to dig that article up, but I found an article in this individual I'd run into it read the same article as well about tree ring data from historical  drought, and I know tree ring data can be highly variable and there's all these, you know, arguments about it not being fully conclusive, but anyways, and it was suggesting in the Western United States.  It was like 300 or 400 years ago, something like that really long far off, far past, there had been a drought that we at the current percent, you know, if you want to index it, I think we're at like 60 something percent of that drought, the historic  
**[1:52:53-1:53:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:52:53):**  drought level.  Right now in the American West was crazy.  That's really scary because I've got like, I've got just over 25% of the precipitation I should have.  
**[1:53:06-1:53:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:53:06):**  Well, it but what is I should have, you know, like what is that actually based off of average of the last hundred and 40 years.  So, what is this, which means it's normal what is normal besides the setting on a dryer. Well, in part of this conversation we had was like, okay, we look at weather and like five year 10 year 25 year 50 year.  And she it was interesting to talking about like short sighted people in America are like we have no real history.  
**[1:53:38-1:54:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:53:38):**  And, and again it's like well, I wouldn't think it's that hard to imagine that there wasn't just this massive catastrophic drought that long ago, when you really think about it like why is this the wire thresholds measured in 150 to 200 years like this,  you know, it's been this country these, you know this areas but around for way way longer than that, why couldn't there have been a worse drought even back then.  And it was just an interesting thought and her point was to like, okay, every time that an extreme happens it's the first time that it's maybe been documented in modern society but it doesn't mean that it hasn't previously occurred at the same if not  
**[1:54:22-1:54:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:54:22):**  a more extreme extent.  It was just an interesting conversation with this lady that I mean, that's an excellent point. It's, it's kind of like everything that we're experiencing has already happened somewhere else in the universe sometime, all this weather has happened before  is just we might not have been here to see it. Yes. Yeah.  
**[1:54:43-1:54:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:54:43):**  And I, I really appreciate that.  You know, there's so many people that are like oh man made cause climate change.  But I don't even think that the stuff we've done has even really started to affect the climate.  
**[1:54:57-1:55:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:54:57):**  I think we're probably on the precipice of seeing really ramified effects in the future.  And we're getting close to time we'll have to come back again in a couple of months and talk about talk about how we can make it through the future, and what raging in the future. What, how to adapt our businesses to a changing climate.  Here we go.  
**[1:55:25-1:55:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:55:25):**  It's an excellent question everybody should be wondering all the time.  So did I forget to ask anything today.  I don't think so I feel like we kind of pretty broadly covered the basis there. Thank you so much for having me on I really appreciate it. It's always great to visit with you.  
**[1:55:42-1:56:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:55:42):**  Well, you too Katie always, you know, I've kind of been.  If you have a fan club, I'd probably be a member, you know, I kind of been following you along ever since you knew Devin Emory, like there are three four years ago and I met you out at grass fed exchange in California I've just been kind of kind of keeping an eye on you  I'm impressed with what I see.  
**[1:56:02-1:56:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:56:02):**  Well thank you that's very generous of you, but I enjoy I enjoy and appreciate the work that you're doing. I always think it would be a great thing to do but I don't actually do it so I appreciate you, organizing people to try to create some change.  So, I can't do sell by marketing either so  we can team up on something one day.  
**[1:56:23-1:56:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:56:23):**  Maybe it's all kind of folks make the world go round I guess. Yeah.  All right. Any, anybody want to give a shout out to.  Oh, yes.  
**[1:56:35-1:57:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:56:35):**  I, we were talking earlier and Brian had a mistake and thinking that I was a talented gunsmith individual and I am not, but he's actually thinking of my husband.  And that was one thing we're talking about earlier to, you know, living in these remote areas and these landscapes is just like how there's not these population centers, you know, the families that we have that come along with us and doing undertaking  some of these tasks but yeah my husband Justin, he actually runs a gun business out of the house, and he does he's a gunsmith and an NFL and an SOT and whatever all the other acronyms are.  
**[1:57:18-1:57:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:57:18):**  So, he's he's doing that.  And I'm here at the house and we're trying to balance a wild wild one year old and working outside and building guns and just live in the Wyoming lifestyle, you know.  So, anyways, we definitely couldn't do it without him.  
**[1:57:39-1:58:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:57:39):**  Awesome. All right, so where, where can people go to get in touch with you to find out more if they want to.  Oh, with me.  I am really so emails honestly the best if you really want to talk to me, Katie Katie at Far Cross, be a RC ro s s.com.  
**[1:58:00-1:58:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:58:00):**  I do have social media but I don't use it so don't try to contact me there.  Email.  He has his gun business is on Facebook though right. Oh yeah, well he actually has a website he's actually legitimate, and he's 610 defense works.com.  
**[1:58:20-1:58:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:58:20):**  So, yeah, I'll make sure I find a link to that and get it in the show notes for you. Well thank you that's very kind of you.  I keep saying we're going to do a ranch website because we have an internship, that's pretty it's grown quite a bit, but we don't have one. So, no social media either.  Sometimes you're better off without it because there can be a lot of.  
**[1:58:44-1:59:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:58:44):**  It can take up a lot of mental bandwidth that you're probably putting you're probably putting to work creating a lot more value. Yes, yeah, well and I did the whole Facebook and Instagram building and me.  I did the whole Facebook building and media marketing company with the beef company and honestly, I, it was my least favorite part of the entire thing and so anyways when I came here.  Jason was like, do you want to get a website was like, absolutely not.  
**[1:59:13-1:59:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/76-Katie-Scarbrough-Creating-Value-e1m6g6m#t=1:59:13):**  I've heard that music before, we're not playing that song. Yeah, yeah.  Yeah.  Well thank you so much Brian I really appreciate it. Well thanks for your time today, Katie.  