---
title: 77 Chip Mcgregor Regenerative Has Some Problems
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2022-08-15)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:00:00):**  Well hello everybody and welcome back to another week. This episode has been sponsored by our  generous patrons over on patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher. Make sure you check the show  notes for a link. This week I'd like everybody to share the podcast with some of your friends,  
**[0:00:15-0:00:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:00:15):**  with some of your networks, share one of your favorite episodes. It doesn't even have to be  this one. And after you've done that please go to your favorite podcast platform and leave us  a review. Five stars would be great. I'd get along with four just fine. So this week we go visit with  
**[0:00:30-0:00:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:00:30):**  a self-proclaimed cowboy kid who shares his family history in the ranching business. We talk about  mental health and having a relationship with livestock and how that relates to veganism. His  name is Chip McGregor and he's an army vet with several tours in the mid-east. We get into the  
**[0:00:46-0:01:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:00:46):**  challenges of managing at scale and social connections and we try to unpack how the merit  of feeding a community got replaced by exploitive labor. So saddle up. Here we go.  All right, gotta pay some bills. If you haven't heard about Anchor by Spotify, it's the easiest  
**[0:01:00-0:01:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:01:00):**  way to make a podcast with everything you need all in one place. Let me explain. Anchor has all  the tools that allow you to record and edit your podcast right from your phone or your computer.  When hosting on Anchor you can distribute your podcast on listening platforms such as Spotify,  
**[0:01:15-0:01:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:01:15):**  Apple Podcast, Google and more. It's super easy. It's everything you need to make a podcast in one  place. And best of all, Anchor is totally free. Download the Anchor app or go to anchor.fm to get  started today. Hi Chip, how are you this morning? I'm doing fantastic. And yourself?  
**[0:01:48-0:02:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:01:48):**  I'm doing pretty good. A little early for me to start one of these this morning but it was nice  getting up, getting to see the sunrise, a little bit of fall dew, whatever you want to call it,  hanging over the grass. It's probably about the only moisture I'm going to see for the next  
**[0:02:04-0:02:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:02:04):**  30 days and about the only moisture I have seen for the last 30 days. Are you getting any rain  over there? Fantastic. Raining here. It's raining for about a day and a half. My neighbors really  needed it. We've had pretty good consistent rain once or twice a week here in our little  
**[0:02:21-0:02:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:02:21):**  corner of southeastern Indiana but literally the people that I buy hay from have been struggling.  So we've just had this little rain cloud over us. It's going right now because I have old granny  cows that are about to calf and I was out checking them this morning and you know in there they want  
**[0:02:36-0:02:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:02:36):**  to go and hang out in the mud instead of go somewhere nice and dry to have a calf.  And so check them this morning, have my coffee poured. Things are going pretty good. I'm on a  podcast. I feel like I'm a pretty big deal being on the Ranch and Reboot podcast and it puts me in  
**[0:02:52-0:03:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:02:52):**  the same, I'm now in the same class as Fred Provenza and Steve Stratford. I feel like I'm  on the same level as them when it comes to cow knowledge. I don't know what that says about me  because I don't know anything anymore. I don't know any more than I did when I started doing this.  
**[0:03:14-0:03:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:03:14):**  Yeah, I can sum up my cattle. My ranching is what the hell do you mean just happened? How the hell  did that just happen? That's our slogan around here like what the hell do you mean just broke?  So yeah, that's how we do it. So you said you were in southeast Indiana? Southeastern Indiana,  
**[0:03:34-0:03:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:03:34):**  yep. I'm on the very, very suburbs of Cincinnati. Very out as you can go.  As out as you can go. So if you're there by Cincinnati, Louisville is just a stone's throw  across the river. Yep. And then I'm not equidistant between India and Cincinnati, but pretty close.  
**[0:03:54-0:04:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:03:54):**  So why southeast Indiana? Well, there's a couple of different reasons. There's a big sociological  reason that my family has followed the cattle business with the pioneers out to the Dakotas,  you know, from the east out of the Dakotas and we've been sloshing back east and there's that,  
**[0:04:15-0:04:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:04:15):**  you know, I can give you that big spiel. No, no, this is a byproduct of the cattle industry in the  United States. There's a cowboys kid living in southeastern Indiana. But the reality of the  matter is I met a really hot chick and she's from southeastern Indiana. And here I am. So yeah, my  
**[0:04:33-0:04:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:04:33):**  mom called me up one time. She said, Hey, there's this girl I'd really like you to meet. She's  pretty. And she's a cowgirl. And I was, I was cowboying out with her in Colorado. And she said,  and she's a writer and she's a published writer. And, you know, she just like, you guys just get  
**[0:04:47-0:05:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:04:47):**  along great. And I said, cowgirl from Colorado. I bet she has a, she looks like a female John  Elway. And she's like, look her up on Facebook or whatever you're on now. So I did. And she didn't  look anything like John Elway. So here I am, southeastern India. Okay. So how did I take it?  
**[0:05:05-0:05:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:05:05):**  There's a roundabout story and how you got there. There is, there is came out of the military in  2016. What branch? Am I the army? I'm sorry. I was Navy. Yeah, I know. I know. It's hard to  I Yeah, I know. I will hold that against you. So what did you do in the army? I didn't, I didn't  
**[0:05:25-0:05:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:05:25):**  sleep in metal boxes with other men repeatedly. But friends and friends in the Navy. They're  gross in the Navy. If anybody's listening, they don't understand that joke. But the so came out  of the military. And I've always, always had an eye on ranching. I was going to be a rancher right  
**[0:05:46-0:06:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:05:46):**  up until September 11, September 11, happened with the military. Thought I was going to be there for  three years come home, chase homecoming queen around have a ticket paper raid. And lo and behold,  the global war on terrorism. My part of it lasted for better than 15 years, I got my last group of  
**[0:06:01-0:06:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:06:01):**  guys back from Afghanistan, I called my sergeant major up. I was playing pre gun first sergeant at  the time I called my sergeant major today, I'm out of here. And he didn't let me go for another  year. So the whole time that I was in the military, I had, you know, older family members passing away  
**[0:06:18-0:06:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:06:18):**  and transitioning ranches and lease property. And I knew that the likelihood of going back to ranch  country and being able to compete with other people to lease land and buy land was pretty,  pretty unlikely. There's just too much competition. So I set my sights for Central  
**[0:06:36-0:06:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:06:36):**  Minnesota, have some family around there and kind of have kind of sort of and set my sights out  there kind of started getting myself set up ranching. Met Liz, same year I got out of the  military, spent two years building the building the business that could support a ranch and  
**[0:07:00-0:07:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:07:00):**  move east to chase because the competition for land in Central Minnesota, lease land and that  kind of thing is still high enough where it can be cost prohibitive to get into a lot of this stuff.  Get back here to Indiana and there's very little cattle industry. Land to lease is pretty available.  
**[0:07:18-0:07:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:07:18):**  So it's just not as not as competitive an environment. I would imagine there's a lot of  little parcels there where you're at in Indiana that aren't quite worthwhile to drag a 600 horse  John Deere across or just aren't going to raise a good, just aren't big enough to farm anymore.  
**[0:07:37-0:07:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:07:37):**  Is that the case? Well, the economics of farming around here is a lot of that there's a lot of  farmers trying to get going. And there's a guy that's farming hillsides right by us,  half of this fertilizer is going down the creek and he's farming with a 1086 because he's trying  
**[0:07:55-0:08:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:07:55):**  to get going and he's on land that I think would be pretty hard to make money on. So everybody's  desire to go fence row to fence row, the oral butts thing, it certainly applies in Indiana.  But what they don't have is they don't have the labor that's required to go in for your fence  
**[0:08:14-0:08:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:08:14):**  lines, build fence or deal with cows. They just the people around here because calves will be  600 weight calves will be back 20, 30 cents from where good cattle markets are. Yeah, they'll be.  So you look at that, that's it is pretty stinking hard to make a living in cattle. So a lot of  
**[0:08:36-0:08:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:08:36):**  people own cattle as a hobby. And then when their hobby starts costing too much money or their  health cannot support that hobby, then they'll get out. And then if I play my cards right now,  my ear to the ground, I can I can rent that land before the fences are all grown up and that kind  
**[0:08:51-0:09:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:08:51):**  of thing. So and another big part of this, another really big part of this is I live between three  cities that have a population of a million plus and I'm in the grass fed beef business.  So that's a small advantage. Yeah. So that's a being in the grass fed beef business  
**[0:09:09-0:09:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:09:09):**  in southern North Dakota where the rest of my family is, guess what? Everybody's in the grass  fed beef business and everybody gets a quarter of beef every Christmas. That's a currency for  relationships is something that got something that was hanging from the front end loader.  
**[0:09:25-0:09:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:09:25):**  You know, so yeah, this is a very deliberate move on my and Liz's part to be in the cow business.  But still interested. Well, I mean, we could we could kind of dive into some of the socio  economics of ranching and why that why that pushed you back to the east. And I agree with what you're  
**[0:09:51-0:10:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:09:51):**  saying. And so you got out of the army, what do you say 15, 16 and 16. So I got out of the Navy  in 06. So the costs in 2006, the land cost still were fairly reasonable, I would, I'd say a lot  more reasonable than than they were, you know, 10 years later. Around here, there was a round of  
**[0:10:16-0:10:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:10:16):**  oil exploration and leasing between 2010 and 2014. That really drove a lot of land price up,  but things were pretty good until about then. And my dad's always talked to me about  the cost of production, and about, you know, cows can't buy the ranch cows can't buy the ranch. I've  
**[0:10:38-0:10:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:10:38):**  been hearing that forever. And, you know, the economics of it just simply don't work.  I mean, the economics of buying land with cattle hasn't worked in my area, probably since  gosh, I'd probably say since the 80s. Because there was a piece of ground.  
**[0:10:59-0:11:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:10:59):**  There's a piece of ground that adjoins me that's for sale right now. That, you know, I, of course,  I looked at the listing, the price, and I laughed at it. Because I know that in 1980,  83, 1984, somewhere along there, my dad, my grandmother passed up buying that property for  
**[0:11:18-0:11:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:11:18):**  $35 an acre. And now it's over $1,000 an acre, well over $1,000 an acre.  Right. Well, land is a vehicle to speculate on and to stash some capital in. Yeah,  it might be fantastic, because they're not going to make any more of it.  
**[0:11:41-0:12:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:11:41):**  But I can't disagree on that point that land is a great, quote, investment. It's a place to put  money to let it grow. But what happens to the people that are using that land as a means of  production to produce protein for the world, our costs keep going up due to no fault of our own.  
**[0:12:04-0:12:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:12:04):**  Absolutely. And then what happens is the small towns and the cultural fabric is hollowed out or  rend apart. And then all of a sudden, we have a society of people that are so removed from  the agriculture production, or animal husbandry, or all these things that we've had for thousands  
**[0:12:23-0:12:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:12:23):**  of years, the Alexander family and the McGregor family, we were genetically selected to get along  with livestock for the last hundreds and hundreds of years. And now all of a sudden, we've had this  livestock taken away from us. Let's say everybody, except you and I are the 2% that still own muck  
**[0:12:46-0:13:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:12:46):**  cows. Let's just say that I feel like a large majority of people with neurodiverse minds  need to get the hell out of the city and go be with livestock.  Right. And it's pretty simply having a farm as a tax write-off. And I'm currently sitting on a  
**[0:13:12-0:13:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:13:12):**  farm that started out as a tax write-off. And there's no way you could run cattle on it. You  could not buy land and run cattle on it here in southeastern Indiana. You know, hillsides are  going for well over $10,000 an acre. But the person that's going to buy that place next to you  
**[0:13:31-0:13:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:13:31):**  is probably going to do it for a tax write-off or so they could have an estate or some other  kind of thing like that. And then that's going to be one less family that's going to be part of that  fabric. And that family that would be part of that fabric in your town would move to town. They would  
**[0:13:49-0:14:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:13:49):**  become farther removed from animal husbandry, from animal companionship work. I think that  companionship is sharing of bread. That's the etymology of the word companionship.  Okay. So when you have a companion animal, you're sharing in when we say companion animal,  
**[0:14:11-0:14:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:14:11):**  the word companion is we're sharing in nutrition. So the Alexander, you know,  the corn and days on the Alexander place, you guys are all in it together. So, you know,  in some of the end, and when you remove somebody from that, there's a significant amount of studies  
**[0:14:32-0:14:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:14:32):**  and that have taken place over the years that I'm pretty familiar with because my time running  a company in the army, you know, when we were having everyone always hears about the 22 veterans  suicide today. Okay. That's something that we focused a lot, you know, right about 2014,  
**[0:14:51-0:15:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:14:51):**  that was a big focus of the non-commissioned officer in all of the military. And, you know,  guys like me, we were sitting in front of the, you know, we were sitting in front of the  greater regimental commander's desk on Monday morning, talking about this stuff every stinking  
**[0:15:08-0:15:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:15:08):**  Monday. So I got pretty sharp on it, came out of the military and started writing about it  and doing some research on it. And there is, there's very few studies that laid out,  but there is a, there is a really good association between being around farming,  
**[0:15:26-0:15:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:15:26):**  being around livestock, having better mental health outcomes.  I can believe that 100%. And then the converse, if you want, if you, if you want the perfect  recipe to go and make your drive yourself absolutely nuts and go, you know, have your brain  
**[0:15:43-0:16:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:15:43):**  stop working in the manner that it was supposed to go become a vegan. That's, that's if you, if  you're really interested in convincing and turning yourself crazy, stop eating meat and go start  looking at animals as, you know, everything is a puppy dog. Okay. I get that. And you're not going  
**[0:16:01-0:16:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:16:01):**  to convince me to quit eating meat that veganism is the right way. And I know that's not, not what  you're all about. So why do you say that? Well, I'm saying that veganism is a way to drive yourself  nuts. So that's, that's, you know, we're coming at the angle of, you need to have livestock around  
**[0:16:16-0:16:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:16:16):**  you. We know that it helps people that are, we know that it helps people with mental illness,  and we know that removing yourself from a relationship with livestock, which as far as  I'm concerned is what veganism is. Okay. So we're looking at, we don't see it in this coriander cows,  
**[0:16:29-0:16:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:16:29):**  we see them as puppy dogs that are in a pasture. Okay. We have that same. So all animals are all  this. We need to have that amount of empathy with animals and stop having a relationship with them  in nutrition, nutritional relationship and your outcomes as a vegan. So a vegan  
**[0:16:46-0:17:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:16:46):**  goes against livestock is removed from livestock and they have very, very bad mental health outcomes.  Does any argument for vegan for being a vegan make any sort of sense to you at all on any level?  Yes. Every, yes. Every one of them have 10%, 10% of every vegan argument is absolutely,  
**[0:17:08-0:17:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:17:08):**  absolutely nuts on 100% correct. Every little bit of it. Absolutely.  What are, what are some of those that stick out to you that you've heard?  Well, let's talk about, I mean, let's, let's go, let's go to where the rubber really meets the road.  
**[0:17:25-0:17:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:17:25):**  You know, animal, animal processing, kill plants. Okay. Okay. Process. So everything. So  a steer comes off the Alexander place, goes to a feedlot. Okay. Every, every step of that way,  once he steps off of your trailer. Okay. So let's say he gets on, gets on a cattle pod on the  
**[0:17:42-0:18:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:17:42):**  Alexander place, goes to a feedlot. Every one of them processes that takes place could, once that  animal steps off of your trailer is, could be a part of a documentary on why to be a vegan.  They put it in the feedlot, pump it full of antibiotics, pump it full of all kinds of stuff.  
**[0:18:00-0:18:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:18:00):**  Go and put it in a confined space, you know, feed it multiple times a day to get stand up and go to  feed, you know, and, and take it to a, when it's close to finish that animal is going to be so  close to unhealthy that, you know, if you have a, a minor weather event, it might, it might kill a  
**[0:18:16-0:18:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:18:16):**  good portion of them off. Then it gets on the cattle pot in the heat, you know, gets hauled,  you know, right now coming out of Kansas, you know, your cattle might end up in green Bay.  You know, they might accord it, something with some coriandia and it might end up in green Bay.  
**[0:18:31-0:18:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:18:31):**  And, and then once it gets to green Bay, you know, the whole, that whole process, we have all this  stuff that, you know, we have, we've tried to make all these processes where they're visible,  like in the kill plants and where the money's at. We've tried to make them better, but in reality,  
**[0:18:49-0:19:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:18:49):**  we've tried to make them better, but in reality, a hundred years ago, your critter might've gotten  on a train and gone, you know, gone to Omaha. I don't know where you guys sent the cattle,  but like, I guess we posted up. I don't know where we sent them either.  
**[0:19:03-0:19:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:19:03):**  But on the McGregor place, they got on a train and they went to South St. Paul. So from North  Dakota to South St. Paul, they had it. They had, I don't think they had a stop for water between  North Dakota and Minnesota. They got off there. They got kind of recovered. They got kind of  
**[0:19:17-0:19:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:19:17):**  sorted out. Then many of them went off to some little corn farmer where they got finished.  And then they went to a local butcher shop. They probably went to that local butcher shop on their  side. So they would probably go on, you know, they're going to go looking forward to a grain  
**[0:19:30-0:19:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:19:30):**  bucket and they, you know, and they caught something between the eyes. So the process  that we had a hundred years ago was absolutely, absolutely more humane. So if we're going to,  the way that the, the steers that I grew up eating, they were going out and they're, Hey,  
**[0:19:44-0:19:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:19:44):**  it was time to get fed. All the family was over. It was time to get fed. Mom went and said goodbye  to them. Maybe the little kids went and said goodbye to them. Dad walked out there with a  grain bucket when they stuck their head in the grain bucket, you know, they caught lead poisoning.  
**[0:19:56-0:20:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:19:56):**  So that, you know, so their, their last act was finally trained, you know,  so not being walking up into a, into a ramp, into a noisy place that they've never been before being  stressed out. So, so that, and why do we have this whole process? Well, we have it for, there's,  
**[0:20:17-0:20:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:20:17):**  there's a lot of financial reasons that I think are basically subsidies, but the USDA drives a  lot of this. If I wanted to, so I have people come up to me all the time at farmers markets and say,  I just want to not feel bad about eating meat. And I, and I have a process to bring the stress  
**[0:20:34-0:20:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:20:34):**  out of my steers when they go before they go to processing. And I explain it to these,  to these folks. But I remind them, you know, USDA is in the way for me doing this at my place  and having the, and having the least stress. I mean, there's, there's nothing happier in the  
**[0:20:51-0:21:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:20:51):**  world than an animal that's about to stick his nose in a feed bucket. Yeah, pretty much. So  that's, you know, Hey, that's their last act on earth can be, can be heaven on earth, you know,  but I can't do that. That is, that is illegal. And I think that, I think that consumers should  
**[0:21:07-0:21:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:21:07):**  have a vote in that. I'm not, I, I would be very concerned about some of the people that, you know,  how that could go. We have, we have protections in the industry for a reason, but those protections  that we've had have been degraded considerably. I would agree that most of the protections that we  
**[0:21:25-0:21:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:21:25):**  had that were put in place in the aftermath of Upton Sinclair's book, what was it? Into the  jungle. Yep. The jungle, the jungle, his book exposing, you know, the abuses of the meat packers  over a hundred years ago. And what's interesting to note is when they originally wrote Packers and  
**[0:21:45-0:22:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:21:45):**  Stockyards, there were five meat Packers that had 60% control over the meat market. And now we've  got four approaching 80 to 85% control, but that's not a problem. According to Packers and Stockyards  act. And I get that that's, you know, that's a whole other can of worms to open up is, you know,  
**[0:22:07-0:22:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:22:07):**  current situation, but how we got here, you know, that's always, that's always an interesting story  of how we got here with the wave of consolidations in the eighties and through the nineties.  I'm really, I'm kind of thinking about more, I'm thinking about the hog industry because I  
**[0:22:29-0:22:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:22:29):**  just finished listening to a book Mike Callicrate recommended called Wasteland. It's about  hog farming and the hog lawsuits just a couple of years ago down in Eastern North Carolina  where they were spraying it. The basis of the lawsuits was it was a nuisance claim because  
**[0:22:50-0:23:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:22:50):**  some of the neighbors of the hog farms were getting over spray when they're spraying  hog manure on the fields, they're getting it on their houses, on their clotheslines,  on the porch, whatever. That's, you know, okay when you say it like that it's not that big a deal.  
**[0:23:03-0:23:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:23:03):**  Well, I think we both have a good understanding of what hog odor is, especially from, you know,  a 5,000 head hog barn or four 5,000 head hog barns that have a common lagoon, how bad that can smell.  And I'm not quite finished with the book yet. I've got a couple of chapters yet.  
**[0:23:22-0:23:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:23:22):**  And it kind of tracks along with how I've always run the ranch. Okay, I can do whatever I want on  my property but it can't affect my neighbors. You know, yeah, I could build a dam on the creek  right literally on my fence line. Am I within my rights to do that? Yeah, would I probably have to  
**[0:23:45-0:24:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:23:45):**  go get a permit for NRCS because government regulations? Yeah, but technically I could build  a pond on the creek on the fence line, build a dam as tall as I want and stop all that water from  going to my neighbor. Is that the right thing to do? No, that's absolutely not right. And we lose  
**[0:24:03-0:24:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:24:03):**  sight of these decisions about what we should do to our neighbor or what we can legally do to our  neighbor. And when we lose a sense of community, you don't care about your neighbor because you  don't know them. They're just a nameless, faceless corporation of an absentee landowner that lives  
**[0:24:22-0:24:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:24:22):**  halfway across the continent. Why should I care about that guy? So yeah, if the Alexander  Corporation had enough money, they could absolutely have no problem whatsoever doing exactly what you  wanted to do. They could throw enough lawyers at your little counties, at your county in your state  
**[0:24:39-0:24:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:24:39):**  where they could absolutely get away with whatever you wanted to do. So that sense of community,  we've replaced the merit of community with a meritocracy of money, which is what we have.  Money is kind of the evil part of the system.  
**[0:25:02-0:25:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:25:02):**  And there's problems with our money and we don't have to get into that.  Let me rephrase my point. Bill Gates can get away with things the Alexander's can't get away with.  Yeah, because he has lawyers to hide behind. He's got a corporate, he's got LLC over here,  
**[0:25:18-0:25:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:25:18):**  he's got this business over here, he's got this S-Corp and this S-Corp. It's like Smithfield  Foods and Murphy Brown LLC and their different little entities that they've got. It's all just  a shell game and a corporate veil to hide liability. Well, why can't we take advantage of  
**[0:25:35-0:25:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:25:35):**  that? There's nothing saying we can't take advantage of that. The only problem is we don't  have the time to figure it out. Nobody's standing beside, nobody's going to pull us aside to tell us  and all that shit's expensive to get set up because you got to pay the people to file the paperwork.  
**[0:25:50-0:26:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:25:50):**  We don't have that kind of time. So us as people, small business owners, we don't have to  you know, us as people, small business owners, we're exposed to a lot more potential liability  because we can't afford to set up a complex corporate structure.  
**[0:26:07-0:26:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:26:07):**  Yep, very true. In most industries, you get big enough and you can self-insure,  you just have enough assets where you can self-insure. Well, I got to cut a check to  insurance guy. He's a wonderful person. But you know, he needs us check every month for me to  
**[0:26:28-0:26:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:26:28):**  continue to have some. Yeah, and your insurance cost goes down every year, right? Because you  don't make claims and you're a good upstanding citizen. That premium goes down every year, right?  Yeah, no, we find actually what happens is we find new and different types of insurance that  
**[0:26:43-0:26:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:26:43):**  we have to buy every single year because the, and through it gets to the point where  I think that that's the only people that are making a living oftentimes, you know,  we have all this liability insurance, every type of insurance in the world,  
**[0:26:56-0:27:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:26:56):**  and the insurance companies are doing really well. And yeah, there's a lot about insurance,  but that's, yeah, the small guy is most certainly more exposed than the big guy.  And that's our own doing. That's absolutely our own doing. You know, in the last  
**[0:27:17-0:27:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:27:17):**  look, we're going to, I don't want to talk about regenerative agriculture. Let's talk about  something that's much less controversial like politics or religion. If you want to do religion,  we can do that. But I know if we talk, we just stay away from religion. We can get into politics.  
**[0:27:30-0:27:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:27:30):**  If we talk regenerative agriculture, everybody will be mad and sending me hate mail and stuff  like that. So let's just stick with a good spam filter for that. Yeah. Let's just stick with  politics. But in Minnesota, so in the last election, they had the Democratic Party's  
**[0:27:54-0:28:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:27:54):**  called the Democratic Farm and Labor Party. Okay. And what it was is a socialist party that came  out of the Dakotas and filtered into Minnesota back, literally started in the Dakotas, came into  Minnesota, bumped up against all the guys that worked on the docks in Duluth and Mississippi  
**[0:28:12-0:28:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:28:12):**  River. And that was a Democratic Farm and Labor Party. And they're just as stinking socialist as  possibly could be. Reason being is these guys in the 1800s, they knew that they needed to be,  they needed to have, they needed to be together. You know, their individual communities needed  
**[0:28:28-0:28:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:28:28):**  to be together. That's, you know, Cenex cooperative, all these cooperatives that are now  big, nameless faces, corporations, they started out as some farmers, you know, coming together  to get some buying power or get some, you know, lobbying power to get something done in the, you  
**[0:28:42-0:28:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:28:42):**  know, in the halls of power. And now those cooperatives, now the Democratic Farm and Labor  Party, it's still called that in Minnesota, it has very, very little to do with farmers  whatsoever. The last congressman that was the big, the last Minnesota congressman, there was a big,  
**[0:28:58-0:29:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:28:58):**  hey, I'm going to get the pork. I'm the pork delivery guy. You know, he was, he was a DFL,  he was a Democrat. And just because he was Democrat, he got kicked out of office. He  got beat very soundly by just kind of one of these, you know, this really rural Trump congressperson  
**[0:29:19-0:29:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:29:19):**  that, you know, just came in with a bunch of conspiracy theories and things like that really  didn't have anything to say. And then the whole time he said, Hey, listen, the reason that we  have all this good stuff in this farming in this major farming in the Red River Valley,  
**[0:29:32-0:29:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:29:32):**  on the eastern side, the reason we have this stuff is because I went and got it.  Do not forget that. And so, you know, the socialists have been replaced in rural America,  because our population has been, and I'm not, I'm not saying socialism is a good thing. But that was  
**[0:29:48-0:30:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:29:48):**  it. That was a form of collective action where where a group of people could compete with the  Bill Gates of the world. That's that was their solution 100 years ago. I'm most definitely not  a socialist. I'm not a socialist either. But and I guess we could say this. There's a few good ideas  
**[0:30:06-0:30:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:30:06):**  in socialism. They're just taken way too far. Yeah, yeah, no, I'm, I'm a humongous fan of  socialism. But it inevitably comes down to, hey, we got to go shoot these guys. And, you know,  which everybody has been socialists, they've, they've made it, they've, they've turned it into  
**[0:30:24-0:30:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:30:24):**  an art form of, of getting rid of people that don't agree with them. So, well, that's 90% of  what government does is getting enough people to agree to go shoot the people that don't agree.  Yeah. And what did you do in the Navy? I was an engineer, sir. I was not a trigger man. I just  
**[0:30:42-0:31:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:30:42):**  made the boat go just, okay, other people pointed it, I just made sure it can go A to B at the right  speed. So I was, I was all pumps, pipes, valves, anchor windlass, steering gear, main propulsion,  fuel pump. My first enlistment, I was on the USS Enterprise. That was, that was interesting,  
**[0:31:06-0:31:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:31:06):**  because we literally owned gear all the way from one end to the other end, all the way from the  bottom to the top. So we had the anchor windlass all the way up in the forecast. We had the aft  steering gear all the way at the back of the boat. We had winches on both sides, like for  
**[0:31:22-0:31:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:31:22):**  underway replenishment. We had, we had the boat davits. We had the stupid crane called the boat.  It was, we called it the B and A crane. And it was, it was a terrible piece of machinery. The  other cool things we had, we had the aircraft elevators, which the machinery for those is kind  
**[0:31:43-0:32:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:31:43):**  of cool, doing the maintenance on them underneath the flight deck. That's another story for another  time. But we also had, we were, my shop was responsible for an elevator that went from the  hangar bay level all the way to the top of the island. That was the captain's elevator.  
**[0:32:04-0:32:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:32:04):**  And somehow I got into a position where I was the guy doing maintenance on the captain's elevator,  and I got my own personal key for the captain's elevator. So whenever I wanted to go up to the  top of Vulture's Row, up at the top of the island to watch them do flight ops, especially at night,  
**[0:32:20-0:32:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:32:20):**  I didn't have to walk up 13 flights of stairs to get there. I could take the elevator.  Nice. Very nice. Hey, that congressman I was talking about, if anybody wants to look it up,  it's Colin Peterson. And he was over in the Minnesota Red River Valley.  
**[0:32:36-0:32:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:32:36):**  Big, big farm area. And I don't, I don't have his Wikipedia page up or anything like that.  He was beat in 27. He was replaced by Michelle Fischbach, who her whole campaign was like,  I support Trump and he supports me. And, and the Colin Peterson, you know, the port delivery guy,  
**[0:32:57-0:33:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:32:57):**  he, he was, he was taken out. So I think that says that was that was kind of that says  something about our politics and about the, the, I don't know about the little guy, but it started  out, they were, they were on the side of the little guy and that's where they got their votes.  
**[0:33:13-0:33:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:33:13):**  Do you think we, we have anybody in government that actually understands agriculture?  I mean, that understands not just, not just what the lobbyists and industry organizations tell them  that, you know, well, we've got this much production from this ground, but actually  
**[0:33:30-0:33:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:33:30):**  understand agriculture down to a fundamental soil level.  So Joni Ernst, an Iowa Senator from Iowa, she, so she kind of comes bedded by me. She's married  to an army ranger and we know, we know people in common. And so when she, and she, and when she  
**[0:33:53-0:34:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:33:53):**  ran for office, she, she came on fire and brimstone and, you know, she came in with a tea party and  you know, she came in with a tea party, you know, and so I kind of called her. I was like, hey,  you guys know this guy? Like, oh yeah, he's a hell of a good guy. And they're, you know, they're  
**[0:34:07-0:34:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:34:07):**  actual farmers in Iowa, all that kind of stuff. And I think the minute that you become a Senator,  you, I think when you step off the farm, you just get inundated with all of these people that have  some political agenda that they really need. You know, I think, I think the noise, the static  
**[0:34:27-0:34:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:34:27):**  goes up to a million. And then, you know, the chip McGregor's and Brian Alexander's in the world,  they really stop mattering when it comes right down to it, because I don't have time to make,  go and make a bunch of noise. I got, I got old granny cows in the cabin and, and my next,  
**[0:34:43-0:34:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:34:43):**  my next contribution to a campaign is going to be a campaign for getting another one of these stand  up freezers put in behind me, you know? So yeah, it's just, it's just.  Isn't that their plan?  
**[0:34:53-0:35:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:34:53):**  Isn't that their plan? Keep us busy enough. Like if you keep the tax slaves busy enough,  they won't revolt. They won't have time to look up.  But I don't. So here I have an issue with their, their, you're the first time I've heard you say  
**[0:35:09-0:35:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:35:09):**  it, but there's some, but you're going to get the full brunt of the, my frustration with the term,  who is they? You said that isn't that their plan. Who is they?  I get what you're saying. And I'm not one of those people that think that there's that there is a  
**[0:35:26-0:35:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:35:26):**  vast global conspiracy of lizard people that are ruining the world.  I'm a conspiracy theorist, but I'm not a conspiracy theorist. I'm a conspiracy theorist  because I can see what's going on in the world and say, Hey, these STEMIs are going to cause  
**[0:35:44-0:36:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:35:44):**  inflation. No, you're just a crazy conspiracy theorist. Okay. Whatever. I get that.  Is there, there, there's not a shadowy cabal. There's not a dark smoke filled room full of  people that are running. When I say they, I'm just kind of overall referring to the people  
**[0:36:07-0:36:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:36:07):**  that are in charge and not anybody in specific or a specific body that is like colluding to  colluding to bring about a certain future. Does that make sense?  Sure. Okay. So now what was I saying for that?  
**[0:36:24-0:36:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:36:24):**  So you're talking about, they, we were talking about a Senator goes and they get so much noise  coming from all these different aspects of the ag world that they probably didn't know existed, or,  you know, didn't realize that there was, you know, they had that much voice and they forget  
**[0:36:38-0:37:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:36:38):**  about the McGregor's and the Alexander family. Some managing at scale is hard. It's very hard.  You know, we're both, we're both good managers in our own, right. On our own little postage  stamp of dirt with our own little handfuls of cows. And no matter how big or important we  
**[0:37:00-0:37:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:37:00):**  both think we are in the grand scheme of life, in the grand scheme of that, you know, how much land  areas in the United States, the size of the United States cowherd, neither one of us are anything.  Like we're not even, we're not even an ingrown hair on a gnat's ass.  
**[0:37:17-0:37:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:37:17):**  Yep. For as important as we think we are.  You get elected to even, even to state government. Okay. Right here, sitting in my studio,  I have a fairly, fairly compact circle of concern. You know, things that I can affect,  
**[0:37:36-0:37:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:37:36):**  things that I need to be concerned about, you know, I have a very compact circle of influence,  you know, things that I can change. When you, when you get into government, that scope has to  broaden out a lot. I mean, a huge, huge margin. So the attention that I have and the attention that  
**[0:37:57-0:38:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:37:57):**  I can give my postage stamp, if I had to go to Congress, even the state Congress,  I don't get more attention. I don't get more mental bandwidth. Right. We don't get any more  of that. You know, you wake up in the morning, you've got X amount of mental energy that you're  
**[0:38:14-0:38:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:38:14):**  going to spend through the day. Okay. I choose to spend it on my grass and cows. So I can put a lot  of energy into a very compact situation. When you're managing at scale, you have the same  mental energy budget to apply to a much, much larger area of problems. And they don't have  
**[0:38:37-0:38:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:38:37):**  mental energy to apply to it. They got to have aides that have to tell them facts. Human mind  is faulty. We've all played the telephone game, you know, where you get 50 people in a line.  And at one end you say, Johnny called Susie. And by the time you get to the other end,  
**[0:38:52-0:39:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:38:52):**  it's Frank and Bob went on a date. Okay. These messages get messed up and lost and  confused in translation. So you'll have, I guess I don't know what I'm kind of losing my point here,  but it's hard to manage. It's a fantastically hard challenge to manage at scale.  
**[0:39:15-0:39:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:39:15):**  And we've never done it. I've never have. I mean, and I think that it's especially hard for somebody  that is a farmer and they've been, you know, like, Hey, they're the damn expert at putting,  you know, quarter grill panels together. And maybe, you know, maybe someone is better served  
**[0:39:33-0:39:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:39:33):**  through having, you know, your Senator would probably be more effective if his background  was, he was the captain of the enterprise and was able to delegate and manage different systems.  You know, that would make him a better Senator than some, you know, dumb farmer that's been,  
**[0:39:47-0:40:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:39:47):**  you know, trying to make irrigation work, keep stock decks full. You know, you're just not,  you're not, you're not set up for it. You know, to go and to go and manage a staff,  have a chief of staff have, you know, five V level people that are managing major projects for you,  
**[0:40:06-0:40:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:40:06):**  you know, and you check in with them three times a week, you know.  So sometimes I kind of have a hard time really thinking about  how a large top-down management structure should work because I don't think they do.  
**[0:40:23-0:40:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:40:23):**  I think that that's kind of almost a waste of mental energy from time to time  because top-down structures that are managed from the top down, they always fail. And  what works and what's worked throughout history are small communities that are managed either  
**[0:40:46-0:41:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:40:46):**  from the bottom up or collectively for that, you know, for the future of that group. And they share  a collective vision of how to manage the resources and how they're going to manage the resources in  the future. And once your community gets past a certain size, that bottom up management doesn't  
**[0:41:09-0:41:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:41:09):**  work anymore. And that kind of coincides with the breakdown of social fabric. Once your community  passes about 200 people, I think those social community, those social connections start to  break down because a human can only maintain about 150 social connections. That's what I've read.  
**[0:41:27-0:41:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:41:27):**  Some people are less. I'm probably like the bottom of that scale. Some people are really  going their way more. Fine. I'm not that guy. But it's being able to maintain the social connections  and take care of one another and know what the other people in your community need  
**[0:41:47-0:42:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:41:47):**  versus what you think they need. I mean, community gets big enough, you don't have time listening.  You don't know everybody. And you start making assumptions. You start telling yourself stories.  And I think the most important part in that whole spiel is probably what's most often overlooked.  
**[0:42:09-0:42:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:42:09):**  It's the community needs to have a common vision on how to manage their shared resources.  So what's that look like? Is that 80% of people agreeing on 80% of the stuff  or is that a simple majority? And I think instead of thinking about things in terms of,  
**[0:42:30-0:42:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:42:30):**  well, left and right, Democrat, Republican, 50-50, winner and loser, I think we need to  be thinking about trying to build more of like an 80% consistent, 80%  consistency. Get 80% of the people to agree with 80% of what you say. And I think you might have  
**[0:42:51-0:43:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:42:51):**  something. Yeah. And that's in keeping with a lot of different things. Let's circle back to,  we were talking about veganism and all that kind of stuff. And we brought up The Jungle  by Upton Sinclair. And the book, The Jungle by Upton Sinclair is not about the hogs on the large  
**[0:43:10-0:43:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:43:10):**  wheel being dismembered in this factory. It is about Jurgas moving these Lithuanian. It's a  story of this family that moves to the United States or taken advantage of. It opens at a  wedding where Jurgas, I think his name is Jurgas. It's been a little bit since I've read it. So  
**[0:43:31-0:43:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:43:31):**  it's actually about the rending apart of a culture or of a family. And they come out of their culture  into the culture of Chicago and they all kinds of care. They get sold a bill of goods on the house,  they all go broke. And then they, some of them kind of get their, they go through all this  
**[0:43:51-0:44:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:43:51):**  trouble. They get kind of get their crap together. And then that's kind of the story of America. But  what Upton Sinclair was writing about is how we are taking advantage of how we are treating  these people like animals. That was the problem. And he had to use the exploited immigrant labor.  
**[0:44:09-0:44:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:44:09):**  Yup. Exploited immigrant labor. And he even said in interviews after the fact, he said,  it wasn't about the stinking conditions in the slaughter plants. It was how we're treating  these immigrant labor, which we've just replaced the, I think they're Lithuanians. We've replaced  
**[0:44:26-0:44:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:44:26):**  them with migratory workers. That is one of the stories of America. So that community is that  culture, that Lithuanian culture that they brought with them, they're dancing in this wedding in the  beginning of the book. It's just, that's just being rent apart. And what's happening now to  
**[0:44:47-0:45:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:44:47):**  your community and to the community of the North, the community where the McGregor's are from in  North Dakota, is it's being rent apart. And everybody thinks that, well, we're still here,  we're doing bigger and better than ever. And it's not going to happen to us. And in reality,  
**[0:45:01-0:45:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:45:01):**  you can look through the history of the United States and it all, I mean, Grapes of Wrath,  Hemingway and Steinbeck are all talking about people that are being displaced.  People that are being displaced. And those aren't new stories.  
**[0:45:14-0:45:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:45:14):**  No. And then it's happening and people are like, well, that'll never happen to me.  There's no way that'll ever happen to me. And at the same time, the big tractor manufacturers  come out, look at this, look at this thing we can do. We don't need a farmer anymore. And look at  
**[0:45:28-0:45:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:45:28):**  this spray right here. We can do all this without some jerk that can't read good. And it's hard to  get along with. We'd like, hey, that's so, you know, my dad said they never should have made  a tractor larger than the 40, 20. That would have saved most of rural America.  
**[0:45:47-0:45:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:45:47):**  I mean, you could even say a 9N Ford or a Farmall M should have been the biggest tractor.  I think Old Bend, I think they said nothing bigger than the, yeah, the little, the little,  the little gray Fords. I think, I think I've heard that same kind of thing, but  
**[0:46:01-0:46:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:46:01):**  yeah. And now is that.  The other six commodity farmers that listen just went click and turned us off.  Well, the last, we just killed off the last, the last of that part of your audience, but the,  
**[0:46:11-0:46:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:46:11):**  the reality of the matter is just, you know, if we said, guess what,  here's our limit on tractor size, you know, we've been, I don't know.  That was driven by an Amish community?  
**[0:46:21-0:46:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:46:21):**  That makes, that makes socialism look pretty damn good. You know, that's,  that's the kind of thing that like, Ooh, well, hold on now. You know, so.  You ever go by an Amish community and check out their machinery?  
**[0:46:33-0:46:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:46:33):**  My dad used to sell lots and lots of horses to the Amish and yeah, that's,  but we, you know, we take a look at, so that's a religious thing. We're predominantly talking about  culture when we're talking about ranching, you know.  
**[0:46:51-0:47:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:46:51):**  You can't talk about culture without talking about religion, because when you're talking about the  Amish, their religion, their religion is intertwined with their culture.  Right. Well, that's all.  
**[0:47:02-0:47:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:47:02):**  Even you and I, okay. I don't want to talk about you. I'll talk about me.  I'm not very religious, but there is, there's a lot of Judeo Christian philosophy and thinking  that are intertwined, you know, into my culture. That's who I am. And, you know, we're, we're  
**[0:47:21-0:47:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:47:21):**  talking about, we were just talking about the Upton Sinclair's book, Into the Jungle, and you're  absolutely right. It's not about the conditions in a meat packing plant. They were described as  horrible, but the story is really about the story of immigrant labor and how they're taking advantage  
**[0:47:37-0:48:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:47:37):**  of in these packing houses. And it hasn't changed. It hasn't changed. And I was sitting here and I  made a few notes that modern agriculture, like whether we're talking about the chicken industry,  whether we're talking about pork, whether we're talking about commodity crops,  
**[0:48:00-0:48:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:48:00):**  or whether we're talking about the cattle industry that we've had for the last,  well, let's just say eight years. It's all based on exploited labor. It's based on exploited labor.  It's based on externalized cost and it's based on underpaid labor. And it's not possible without  
**[0:48:20-0:48:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:48:20):**  massive government subsidies. Now let's start to unpack some of that. Let's just focus on,  on that labor side of it. Okay. So a hundred years ago in the Chicago meat, meat plants,  it was a lot of Eastern Europeans that came over, uh, Latvians, a lot of Polish too, I think.  
**[0:48:40-0:49:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:48:40):**  And now we move, we moved all the packing plants out to Western Kansas, out to the, you know,  Texas, Oklahoma panhandles. We moved them there because that's where we built the feedlots. Why  did we build the feedlots there? Because it doesn't rain and there's a lot of water for irrigation.  
**[0:49:02-0:49:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:49:02):**  I mean, we could get into that. We can open that can of worms here in a little bit.  Um, so we moved the packing plants out to where nobody's living there. So how do we, well,  let's get them staffed, bring up people from the South. And this isn't, this isn't like a dig on  
**[0:49:21-0:49:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:49:21):**  any kind of an immigrant at all. This is just pointing out the obvious flaw in the system,  that it doesn't work without exploited labor. Meat plants don't work without exploited labor  that work below the cost. I mean, below the cost of what, you know, an American citizen  
**[0:49:39-0:49:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:49:39):**  would generally work at. People want to come here for the opportunity and then want to work  in those meat plants, but nobody here wants to do it because it's all, it's dirty work. It's,  you know, it's a lot of blood and, you know, packing plant be the last place I'd want to work.  
**[0:49:54-0:50:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:49:54):**  If we're picking out jobs as a 16 year old in school and they had all the jobs lined up,  you know, like they probably should have, meat plant worker wouldn't be one of them.  But if there is a sheet that said artisan butcher right next to meat plant assembly line worker,  
**[0:50:12-0:50:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:50:12):**  I might read that description and say, oh, well, this guy stands on a line and makes one cut every  day. You know, makes one cut 600 times. This guy makes 600 different cuts on one carcass and he  turns, you know, he extracts value from this thing that used to be living and is going to provide  
**[0:50:29-0:50:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:50:29):**  sustenance for people and he extracts maximum value for that. But they didn't talk about meat cutters  when we were kids and we were going through school. That wasn't an option. Go to college.  If you don't go to college, you won't have a degree. You won't know anything. Nobody will  
**[0:50:41-0:51:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:50:41):**  ever hire you, which has also led to an entire generation with useless college degrees that they  can't pay for. Right. I guess that's another, that's another conversation entirely. So to kind  of continue on this whole exploited labor conversation. So in the beef industry,  
**[0:51:00-0:51:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:51:00):**  our exploited labor is in the packing plants. Our exploited labor is the hobby farmer.  Our exploited labor is the hobby farmer that's an insurance salesman in town that keeps five cows in  their backyard and feeds hay all year and doesn't know his production. If you're listening to this  
**[0:51:26-0:51:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:51:26):**  and you're offended by what I just said, I'm sorry. But the truth is the truth. If you're  selling, if you're taking your calves to the barn and you don't know how much money you've got in  them, you're hurting the business for the rest of us. 100%. So it's people that are in this that are  
**[0:51:46-0:52:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:51:46):**  raising livestock as a hobby that we have to compete against, that those of us running a  business have to compete against. So that's exploitation of labor. We take a look at,  if you listen, if you read the book, The Meat Racket by Christopher Leonard, it talks about  
**[0:52:05-0:52:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:52:05):**  the chicken industry primarily focuses on a chicken industry. Tyson's Chicken House is in  northwest Arkansas. There aren't guys that look like you and me in there. We're talking immigrant  labor that works 20 hours a day to barely break even on these horrible contracts, horrible terms,  
**[0:52:27-0:52:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:52:27):**  lenders, all the worst stuff. It's the same with hog farmers in North Carolina.  How long is it going to be before we're replaced?  I don't think we'll get replaced because cattle take up too much land.  
**[0:52:44-0:52:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:52:44):**  The packers don't need to chickenize the beef industry. We already did it for them.  Yeah, well, we have been replaced. We have been replaced in the feedlots.  We absolutely have been replaced in the feedlots. The cattle feeder,  
**[0:52:57-0:53:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:52:57):**  I don't know how large a cattle feeder was in 1960, but I think that I would have to imagine  the 500 head was a pretty stinking big operation. I realize it was still, since the 50s, we've had  big feedlots. I think it was like 1954, 55 when the first modern big feedlot was built down by  
**[0:53:19-0:53:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:53:19):**  Hereford, Texas. Do you know what the business decision was that drove that? I probably could  come up with something, but it would be bullshit and not the truth. So why don't you tell me?  No, I will cite this if you need to read show notes later. But it was put into place because  
**[0:53:38-0:54:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:53:38):**  it was one of the, I think it was first hormone treatment for cattle came about. And the bean  counter said, hey, look at that. Now this thing makes sense. And that hormone treatment was very  quickly found to be very detrimental for human health. But yeah, it was driven by pharmaceuticals.  
**[0:54:06-0:54:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:54:06):**  Some reason I'm sitting here thinking, okay, I'm trying to put some puzzle pieces together,  and I'm not sure they quite fit well. So I might have to talk this out. So mid-50s,  we built feedlots. We built first big feedlots down around Hereford, Texas. And it didn't take  
**[0:54:22-0:54:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:54:22):**  more than probably just a few months before they started sprouting up like mushrooms after a spring  rain. And the growth hormone, like an early growth hormone, I hadn't necessarily heard that. I  remember when ralgro came out in the 80s. And that was, I think I remember the cattlemen  
**[0:54:46-0:55:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:54:46):**  back in the 80s talking about the, oh, this is so much better than that crap we used to use.  It's so much better, so much better. Okay. So there's a puzzle piece.  So through the 50s and 60s and into the 70s, we've discovered feedlots. We're starting to  
**[0:55:04-0:55:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:55:04):**  stuff cattle into these feedlots. And they're getting bigger and bigger and bigger. And this  is before Temple Grandin did a lot of her work. So feedlots are getting bigger. Animal performance is  probably starting to drop off, but it's being artificially held up by hormones and growth  
**[0:55:26-0:55:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:55:26):**  implants. So we go do that for 15 years and beef quality declines. The hormones we're using make it  tough and unpalatable, which leads to the quality perception problem that we had coming into the  late 70s, which is why we check off. Right. That was the lie that we got sold on. We got sold on  
**[0:55:51-0:56:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:55:51):**  the checkoff. Well, we need this to increase quality, increase competition, blah, blah, blah,  blah, blah. Well, we don't have to talk about what's happened since the checkoff, but  it just seems like the scale, challenges of managing at scale,  
**[0:56:11-0:56:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:56:11):**  challenges of growing food at scale, challenges of growing anything at scale.  Maybe scale is the problem. Maybe the scale is a problem. Absolutely. Scale is absolutely.  No key ways about it. And the way you're able to scale is to remove the human component from it.  
**[0:56:34-0:57:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:56:34):**  That's how you scale. Pretty simple. That gets back to the whole labor argument. I'm having  trouble squaring the labor and energy. Let me give you the history of the McGregor family.  Okay. See if there's any clues in there. Okay. So my great grandmother wrote for the  
**[0:57:04-0:57:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:57:04):**  course and county paper, her life history sometime in the 1960s. And then that was tied together by  my aunt and I, myself has spent a lot of time just talking to, we had a big rift go through  the middle of our family. And when I turned 18 years old, I had the opportunity to go and get  
**[0:57:24-0:57:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:57:24):**  to know one of my uncles and got all kinds of history. And my dad, he had his version of things  and his older brother obviously had a very different version of things as brothers will do.  So my great grandmother left Pennsylvania, son of a civil war veteran, ended up renting farms  
**[0:57:44-0:58:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:57:44):**  in her dad, rented farms in Iowa. They ended up with a place in central South Dakota at the time  that the cattle guys were still coming through. So 1850s, 1860s, yep, 70s, 80s, somewhere. Okay.  Went north to the North Dakota, South Dakota border across from what is now Timberlake.  
**[0:58:03-0:58:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:58:03):**  Went to Omaha visiting family, came back with a guy that had named McGregor that had no past,  but he had, I can, through his tack and through pictures, this guy had Texas, he had Texas cow  punter tradition traditions. And that was my great grandpa, William McGregor. And he was a murderer.  
**[0:58:22-0:58:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:58:22):**  You don't know anything about him? He was a murderous son of a gun. That's what we know about  it. He would sell teams of horses to immigrants. And then once they got over the next major train  feature, he'd go and get his horses back. He started a range war. There was a real honest  
**[0:58:39-0:58:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:58:39):**  to God range war, you know, they were shooting horses out on meat people. In that course in  county paper, she admitted to him lynching Indians. He was, he was, he was this, this son  of a gun was a, he was, he was not, he was, he was, he was not a nice guy by any means.  
**[0:58:58-0:59:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:58:58):**  Not somebody he wanted to be on the bad side of.  Yep. So she started out in Pennsylvania and then died in North Dakota. Her son, my grandfather,  he started out in North Dakota and he died in Minnesota. No one in our family in that whole  
**[0:59:15-0:59:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:59:15):**  history has lived in one state and French in one state that whole time, they went out south of  Mandan on the South Dakota border. They went and built a big ranch, built a big, beautiful house,  grew corn down there, which that's, that's, I don't, I think they're still,  
**[0:59:31-0:59:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:59:31):**  that's still amazing. They built a house out of sequestered carbon and I'm not letting that one  go by. How'd they build a house out of sequestered carbon? They built a sod house. Okay. And then  replace that with what is effectively a mansion, probably about a 3,500 square foot stick built  
**[0:59:51-1:00:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=0:59:51):**  house. And then everything just kind of went to shit in the right around world war one. And  it was during the great depression that my grandfather and his brothers, they were driving  cattle out of the dust bowl. They're going to go and graze along the Cannonball River  
**[1:00:08-1:00:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:00:08):**  when great grandfather died. Some of the brothers finally, you know, I'm not going to get shot if I,  if I try and leave, they moved to upstate New York. My grandfather ranched around that area  around that area until he had some drought, you know, different pressures to put on him. Then he  
**[1:00:28-1:00:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:00:28):**  moved to central Minnesota, basically, because land was really cheap. You could, you could,  if you could put a fence up, you know, it was really cheap land. He dropped everything,  went to Minnesota. And then that's where my dad started ranching. I was, I was actually born in  
**[1:00:42-1:00:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:00:42):**  Minnesota. And now I'm in southeastern Indiana. Over that whole history, there's not been a single  McGregor that has lived and died in the same state. We've migrated with the cattle business.  Now, that's only five generations, because we're all old men, we have kids, we've made around to  
**[1:00:57-1:01:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:00:57):**  our 40s to have kids. So there's only four generations in that family. So that's, so that's  how we're able to do that, you know, not live in the same state. But if you look at that history,  that's, you know, there's a lot of opportunity. And when my great grandmother, when she went out  
**[1:01:14-1:01:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:01:14):**  to North Dakota, that was free labor. And you had to, that was pretty ballsy move to go, you know,  this, this, the Sioux Indians were still, they were, they were certainly not put down at that  point. And so, you know, you think about that, that is a tremendous amount of opportunity.  
**[1:01:29-1:01:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:01:29):**  And then my grandfather leaves that area for another opportunity, because Minnesota was,  you know, it was one big swamp when he moved back to Minnesota. So and I'm now I'm in Indiana,  chasing opportunity, but I'm chasing opportunity where the old fences, you know, there's old fences  
**[1:01:44-1:01:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:01:44):**  where I'm building fence, I know where the property line is, because there was a fence there,  you know, made with cedar posts 50 years ago, right. And so the so I'm still chasing opportunity,  I just hit the other end of the bathtub, and now I'm sloshing back this way. And that's,  
**[1:01:58-1:02:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:01:58):**  and but my grandmother, she, you know, they shot their way out of their problems. My grandfather,  he, I don't know if he ranches way out of his problems. And then my dad, he went and got a  good job in town after he came out of the Navy. And that's how he was able to finance his  
**[1:02:13-1:02:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:02:13):**  ranching operation. Oh, your dad was a Navy man. Now you die. He was and he was he was a boiler  operator. Oh, he's a boiler tech. Yeah, that's the other side of the rating that I was in. I started  up as a machinist mate, which just after I just after I joined, or I guess just before I joined,  
**[1:02:32-1:02:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:02:32):**  they combine boiler technicians with machinist mates. And I think I don't know how many enterprise  I know. It was it's not the World War Two enterprise, but I think that he put an enterprise  in service to probably the World War Two. And the one I was on didn't didn't come in till I think 60.  
**[1:02:49-1:03:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:02:49):**  I should know this like 61 or 62. Yeah, he was old when I was there. He came out in 62.  That's when he left the Navy. And I think one of the last things he did is put the I think I think  he put the enterprise in service. That could be that might be kind of interesting if your dad was  
**[1:03:07-1:03:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:03:07):**  a plank owner on one of the boats I was on. Yeah, so but he yeah, that was and he came out as a  boiler operator and went to work for the reason that Minnesota made sense. He went to work for a  paper mill. And it was a good job. You know, union it was a good union job that he didn't, you know,  
**[1:03:26-1:03:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:03:26):**  he could work shift work, and, and finance all kinds of finance and management. And that's how I  know that that's place that I was going on. So and then and then and then the and then the paper  plant went to hell. unions left. And then we ended up bouncing around the country. Predominantly,  
**[1:03:47-1:04:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:03:47):**  I think, you know, until my dad got another good job. But we bounced all over building ethanol  plants and cow kill plants, and things like that and trading horses. So yeah, that's kind of the  he blamed it on what he referred to as Reaganomics. But basically, what was what it was was globalism  
**[1:04:07-1:04:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:04:07):**  is what chase data around the countryside.  That's, you know, you can't really talk about Reaganomics in a lot of circles, because St.  Ronnie is still held in very high regard in a lot of red states. And I get that. But I think I'm,  
**[1:04:27-1:04:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:04:27):**  I think I'm with you on the bus that this whole globalization Reaganomics train  is a wreck and has been a wreck. It's just taken us, you know, 30 years to see it and see how bad  it's going to be. I mean, foreign over half our food supply is owned by foreign interests.  
**[1:04:47-1:05:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:04:47):**  I mean, food security is national security. How did we forget that?  You almost caused some editing there.  I do the editing. So I get a cheese so much I wanted to.  
**[1:05:02-1:05:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:05:02):**  Yeah. But, you know, he was kind of the, he dealt the death nail to globalism.  We came out of Vietnam and we said, hey, guess what? These hippies don't want to,  they don't want to go and fight all that bad. You know, this is not World War II and Korea  
**[1:05:20-1:05:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:05:20):**  generation. You know, these guys want a different way. They come out and he says, all right, we can  outspend the commies. You know, we ain't going to go and fight it out in the jungle with them,  but we can outspend them. So he sinks Russia, makes Russia unsustainable. And then his predecessor,  
**[1:05:38-1:05:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:05:38):**  not his predecessor, the guy that came after him, George H.W. Bush, he was the last globalist.  He's a guy that said, what do you mean you want to go and attack Kuwait? Let's, you know, let's go  and handle business. Bill Clinton came in and said, hey, we're going to fix all these domestic  
**[1:05:50-1:06:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:05:50):**  problems that we have right here. You know, like this is domestic problems. George, and then George  W. came in. He's going to fix domestic problems. Obama's going to fix domestic problems. Everybody  wants to fix domestic problems to the point where both Trump and Biden, they said, hey, we are not  
**[1:06:06-1:06:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:06:06):**  that worried about what's going on over the horizon. We're going to fix all these domestic  problems. And that is the end of globalism. That is which the whole cattle industry,  the whole ag industry, everybody's like, we got to feed the world. We got to feed the world.  
**[1:06:19-1:06:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:06:19):**  Here's a question. When it came time to make sure that we had enough oil to go and feed the world,  did you go inside? Did you walk down to your local friendly strip mall and say, hey, and you know,  and there's four people with hangovers there, one in the Air Force, one in the Navy, one in the  
**[1:06:32-1:06:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:06:32):**  Marine Corps, one in the Army. Did you go and visit with those guys after 9-11? No, you did not.  But you said, oh, I want to feed the world. Guess what part of feeding the world is? Is keeping the  shipping lanes open and keeping everybody keeping everybody with enough diesel fuel to drive around  
**[1:06:46-1:07:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:06:46):**  and go and go and eat our food. But on an individual local level, even in agricultural  communities, like there's some guys that go, I did. And like, yeah, absolutely. Now look around  you. How many of your neighbors did? My dad went to the Korean War. And he was my dad was the second  
**[1:07:03-1:07:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:07:03):**  son. And his brother Jim did not go to the Korean War and married the prettiest girl in the county.  And when he was almost 80 years old, I was at a wedding with my uncle Jim, where this Korean War  vet accused him of being a draft doctor and marrying the only pretty girl in the county,  
**[1:07:22-1:07:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:07:22):**  because everybody in that county up and left for the Korean War. Everybody. And Uncle Jim still got  shit about it 50 years later. I was sitting here thinking about how many guys I know around here  that are veterans. And there's a few. Just a few. And most of them are older than me.  
**[1:07:49-1:08:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:07:49):**  And you're in Kansas. Yeah. Surprisingly, there's a large amount of Navy guys, old Navy vets around.  Like I probably I'd say half the vets I know are Navy guys. Why? I don't know. 1500 miles away from  the ocean. Let's all sign up for the Navy. That says something bad about the community,  
**[1:08:10-1:08:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:08:10):**  I think as far as I'm concerned. But I'll let that one go.  But the well, no, after 9-11, they said, hey, go buy a new Chevy at zero percent interest. Go,  go shopping, go shopping. And then it was about 2005, June 30, 2005, George W. Bush went to Fort  
**[1:08:27-1:08:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:08:27):**  Bragg, North Carolina, and he said, hey, we really need help. This is this is an honorable profession  to be in the military and we need help. And I've said this before, anybody who's in the military  in 2007, 2008, you know, how short handed were you? Everyone was short handed. So,  
**[1:08:41-1:09:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:08:41):**  you know, I got balanced, man. I bounced in 06 because the corporate culture was going downhill  in a hurry. Yep. And but the you know, most people. They said what the message they heard  was, hey, go, go, go shopping. Let's save this. Don't let this ruin our economy. You know,  
**[1:09:01-1:09:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:09:01):**  instead of so that's that's fine. I'm not this is not one of the places where I'm trying to  make somebody feel guilty about not going. I'm trying to trying to use that as an illustration  of when people say we've got to feed the world. What is it? Over 70 percent of young people  
**[1:09:19-1:09:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:09:19):**  between 18 and 25 are medically disqualified from joining the military. Like right up front.  It's it's it's just staggering that 70 to 80 percent are ineligible. Just right. Just  walking in the frickin door. And how did how did Dr. Fred Provenza, how did he explain that with  
**[1:09:41-1:09:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:09:41):**  epigenetics? He's using the right use with cattle. I've just listened to the Fred Provenza episode.  OK, it was several weeks ago for me. OK, on ranching, on ranching reboot with Brian  Alexander, with the Redhill Rancher, I listen to Dr. Fred Provenza explain how what you eat,  
**[1:09:57-1:10:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:09:57):**  you become what you eat, basically. And the day after I listened to it, there was a New York Times  article came out and said that, hey, there are people not a matter of getting them to sign up.  They just can't pass a physical to get in the military, which if you've ever been in the  
**[1:10:11-1:10:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:10:11):**  military, sat in a chow hall in Iraq, I want you to know you don't need to be in very good condition  to be in the military. I mean, a mile and a half sounds like a lot of running when you haven't run.  But trust me, after doing it every day for two to three months in boot camp, that mile and a half  
**[1:10:26-1:10:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:10:26):**  is cake. Yeah, so 50 push ups. Don't worry about it. Don't sweat that. I mean, unless you want to  go be a Marine, then you've got to do some pull ups and stuff, but if you're really worried about  the physical, just go to the Air Force. Yeah, or the Army's got a pretty it's you can get in the  
**[1:10:45-1:11:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:10:45):**  Army and and and and be OK. Yeah, it's not beautiful. So that's yeah, we are what we  eat. And now we're feeding everybody a bunch of garbage and and especially to feed the world.  Yeah, we got to feed the world. And especially we're feeding we're feeding poor kids garbage  
**[1:11:03-1:11:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:11:03):**  because rich kids are buying they're buying grass fed steaks from me. Yeah, you know that. So but  the poor kids, they get the hot dogs and that kind of stuff. And guess who? Guess who goes in  the military? It's the poor kids more often. But so yeah, that's we got a hell of a we got a hell  
**[1:11:19-1:11:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:11:19):**  of a mess to unravel here. So did you just say that regenerative agriculture is racist?  Because only only rich kids can afford to eat it.  You know what? We have some real problems in regenerative agriculture. Yeah, we really do.  
**[1:11:37-1:11:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:11:37):**  And I don't know, I don't know if I'm I don't know if I'm part of regenerative agriculture.  I have a different bent that I might want to be on.  Let's talk about that. I mean, I'm going to I'm going to float this with you first.  
**[1:11:48-1:12:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:11:48):**  This is this is this is this is a right here vegan warrior. So I don't think that I'm I think that we  regenerate the land. And, and Liz. She is most definitely the regenerative agriculture, one of  a handful of regenerative agriculture people in this area. And she's been at it for since way  
**[1:12:11-1:12:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:12:11):**  before it was cool. And, but I am and she has like water lines buried throughout, you know, she puts  up two stock tanks with every one of her, every one of her pastures and all this, you know, they  just see has infrastructure infrastructure. I'm different. I think that I am part of the  
**[1:12:28-1:12:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:12:28):**  industrialized agriculture. Okay, if it costs money, I don't want to do it. So my cows,  the pastures that I set up and I take care of my cows can walk the water, they have legs,  I don't need to go and dig a trench to go and make this now this is this is this place that  
**[1:12:47-1:13:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:12:47):**  we're on doesn't look absolutely fantastic. And does it is it's carrying capacity? Unbelievable?  Absolutely. But the reason I bring up the industrialized agriculture, and how I think  that we should do business is regenerative agriculture is not that accessible. If you go  
**[1:13:05-1:13:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:13:05):**  and listen to everybody in the that, you know, but let's say listen to Brian Alexander, you say,  I'm going to go, I'm going to get into regenerative agriculture, look at right. So, so I don't know,  let's go, let's go guy, he's, let's go check out Red Hills Rancher, he's gonna have this really  
**[1:13:19-1:13:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:13:19):**  fantastic little stock tank, it's got on a little trailer. And then he has, you know, this big chunk  of water line and a solar pump, and all these things to really go and get that place is really  do it, just do it up right. Okay, and all these, and then, you know, all the all the social media  
**[1:13:37-1:13:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:13:37):**  folks that I follow, you know, Trevor and Hobbes, you know, they all have these really nifty  solutions to all these problems, you know, and a lot of these solutions that they have are  thousands of dollars for these solutions. So it's not accessible, where in reality, you can go  
**[1:13:55-1:14:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:13:55):**  ranching. Now, I had, I had some, I was raised by some awfully good men that were good in cheating,  but I'm going ranching with a three quarter ton pickup. And, and a couple of small engines,  you know, that are on on water pumps, you know, like I can, you know, I don't know how long it  
**[1:14:13-1:14:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:14:13):**  takes for me to wear out a generator and burn a cup full of gasoline every time I want to go and  I want to go and water my cows. But I think that overall, when you, you know, you're in everybody's  listening, Brian has this really nifty solar pump in this nifty little water tank trailer.  
**[1:14:31-1:14:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:14:31):**  It's really fantastic. And I don't know what the breakeven point is for my little cup of gasoline  and my generator and my sump pump is, you know, over the course of the life of your thing. But  that's what I'm saying. You don't need a million dollars to go ranching. You need some cows,  
**[1:14:46-1:15:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:14:46):**  you need some fence. Some hay is really nice. I'd argue the hay.  Oh, there's some. So, yeah, I'd argue against hay, but you know what? It sure does feel good having  250 tons of hay in a pile right now. Yeah. Fuzzy all over. I don't know. And that's, that's,  
**[1:15:08-1:15:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:15:08):**  but it'd be industrialized agriculture. You know, I can go and buy hay for a lot cheaper than I can  put it up. I think that here in the, here in the suburbs, I can buy hay for cheaper than I can grow  for it. And that just blows my mind. That just absolutely boggles my mind is how somebody can  
**[1:15:32-1:15:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:15:32):**  grow hay and bale it cheaper than I can grow grass. I, that makes no sense to me. It's a,  I think it's a fallacy of sunken costs. And they say, well, if we want to go farming,  we got to go and buy a baler. You know, we got to go buy a tractor. We got to buy a baler. We got  
**[1:15:48-1:16:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:15:48):**  to buy a hayvine. We got to have all this stuff. And then they have it. They have a job in town.  Their wife has a job in town. Everybody has a job in town. And then they start doing, they start  getting their math creative enough where they think that they're actually making money. And  
**[1:16:02-1:16:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:16:02):**  in reality, they're just taking, they're just depreciating vehicles. That's depreciating  machinery, but the deindustrialized agriculture, it's not just a matter of getting in it.  You know, there's, there's, there's always a way to do, if you don't have the money, there's always  
**[1:16:18-1:16:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:16:18):**  a way to go and do something. There's always a way to figure it out. Yeah. The long pasture with  some sheep. Yep. What I, so one of the things I'm like, one of my dreams is to, um, get set up  in a way. And I think this would really go well with the prepper and urban home standard type  
**[1:16:36-1:16:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:16:36):**  crowd that can't, you know, can't, uh, don't have room for, uh, for cattle. I would love to have a  group buy a critter from me and, uh, you know, knock it in the head and hang it from a front end  loader and have them take it apart. You know, that would be, yeah, maybe on the foot, you know,  
**[1:16:57-1:17:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:16:57):**  I don't know. I don't know how badly I want to have people coming and going and all that  kind of stuff, but, you know, I bet you could get some, because that's how McGregor's have  fed themselves since, you know, we didn't eat our own cattle because our cattle, they had value and  
**[1:17:10-1:17:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:17:10):**  they went to town and they got sold, but you could go to town and you could find something,  you could go to find something with a crooked front leg and, uh, and eat him, you know? So,  uh, and that's, that's a pretty dang cheap eating. If, you know, if you wanted to,  
**[1:17:26-1:17:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:17:26):**  you know, the price of, of grass fed steaks, if you want grass fed meat, um, it's pretty stinking  hard to buy any pound of grass fed anything for under 10 bucks a pound, uh, anywhere, you know,  except if you went out, you know, you're not in the Alexandria place or you went out to the  
**[1:17:43-1:17:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:17:43):**  McGregor place. There's probably somebody that has a, that has a, you know, that needs to go.  Uh, I'm sitting in my freezer room and we call the second chance ranch, uh, you know, cause if you  give us a dirty look or give one of the girls around here a dirty look, this is, this is where  
**[1:17:57-1:18:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:17:57):**  you go. But, uh, you know, there's, there's, there's times in the year where we don't have  the processing dates and we're hanging on to cattle, um, where we'd love to, we'd love to  sell you a quarter of beef if you can cut it up yourself, you know? So, but we can't do that.  
**[1:18:15-1:18:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:18:15):**  That makes it, that makes it, that, that makes it accessible. I don't, I don't,  I don't know. I think if I sell, I think if I sell a credit to five people  and, uh, and they show up and, uh, I, you know, when I provide the,  
**[1:18:28-1:18:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:18:28):**  I provide the steel tables and I mean, I'm a long ways from doing it. Um, but I absolutely think  that'd be, that'd be a go. And I think that, you know, and then if you had a butcher that  knew what they were doing, that was talking, that was walking them through it, you know, and, and  
**[1:18:42-1:18:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:18:42):**  teach them, you know, like some French butcher really teach them how to do it. I think people  really be into it. You know, I've watched a lot of meat cutting videos and, you know, like, hey,  you can go to Costco and you can buy this, this shoulder claw and this is how you break it down.  
**[1:18:55-1:19:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:18:55):**  This is how you break it down. You know, they have real, like, I think that's really neat.  So not so neat that I want to do it for a living, but you know,  I sure like watching people talk about it. So.  
**[1:19:10-1:19:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:19:10):**  For sure. So, um, you pick on vegans an awful lot.  I do.  Any reason? Just easy targets?  
**[1:19:22-1:19:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:19:22):**  Yeah, so I went, uh, my, yeah, they, they, they are becoming easier targets.  But I've actually, as of late, I've been picking on industrialized agriculture a lot more  than vegans because we have to, I'm kind of, I'm just kind of setting the conditions for my  
**[1:19:38-1:19:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:19:38):**  argument, but I, when I was a corporal in the army, I, they said, you got to have an email  address and you're going to, and I had to start writing emails. You know, I had to start popping  things and writing emails and my platoon Sergeant, uh, Jeff Winstead said, Hey, I'm going to swear.  
**[1:19:58-1:20:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:19:58):**  So everybody hide your ears or whatever. I'm going to say to Jeff, Winston said, Hey, McGregor,  you write like an asshole. You need to go to college. So, uh, so I went to college,  uh, cause Jeff, Winston is one of the people you listen to. And, uh, so I signed up for  
**[1:20:16-1:20:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:20:16):**  a philosophy class. I'd studied a lot of religion and go to this philosophy class. And you get about  two weeks into it and start talking about, uh, sinking beings and, uh, and, uh, the singer  talking about animals, having as many rights as human beings and all of these arguments come up  
**[1:20:40-1:20:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:20:40):**  and there's no farm kids sitting there in a philosophy class. So I was kind of me against  the world. And I was at, you know, I was, I was stationed in Fort Lewis. So, you know,  a very, very liberal population outside of Fort Lewis and, uh, Washington, okay.  
**[1:20:56-1:21:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:20:56):**  So, uh, I'm in this community college arguing like, Hey, that's not really how it is. You know,  that's not like, you know, this animal feels this, this animal feels this animal feels. And,  you know, you're like, I would use horses. I would use horses because I grew up eating horse.  
**[1:21:12-1:21:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:21:12):**  My, you know, like, uh, I'm, I'm from, I'm from Plains people and, uh, my dad liked to eat horse.  And we had horse in the freezer. All that's just, that's just how it was. So they're like,  I can't believe that you would eat a horse. And when you say, listen, that horse is not  
**[1:21:26-1:21:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:21:26):**  a puppy dog. Okay. Like I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't care if you eat horse, but all through  Europe, they are eating horse. And if you think that having a horse in your backyard, in your  one acre backyard and hucking him half a bale of hay every day, that is the worst portrait you  
**[1:21:41-1:21:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:21:41):**  could possibly give a horse because that horse is designed to move 30 to 50 miles a day to go and  find water and new ground with friends. So if you own a horse, you need to be on that damn thing,  a good portion of the day and keep its mind working. Because just up until very recently  
**[1:21:58-1:22:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:21:58):**  that animal has been designed to work and that has been his, his job throughout history is to  do some work for us. So when you tell people like, no, you know, thunder in the backyard,  he's in a way worse situation. And he's not looking forward to his cousin's wedding.  
**[1:22:14-1:22:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:22:14):**  He doesn't have that part of his brain where he can see the future. So he's just miserable every  day. So the best thing you could do for old thunder is go and carve him up. And that, and that  way that, that boggles people's minds. So, and I, so I've continued to study philosophy. I still,  
**[1:22:32-1:22:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:22:32):**  I, I'm going to be in college for the rest of my life. And I, I currently go to Penn State,  Pennsylvania State University and on a part-time basis. And I studied narrative technology,  which is an offshoot of philosophy at the, at the Bolasario School of Journalism. But anyway,  
**[1:22:53-1:23:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:22:53):**  narrative technology. Yep. Which I'll explain in a second, but in philosophical circles, there was  this, there was, there's a guy named Springer in the 1970s who founded animal liberation movement  and by writing a book. And basically this is about his argument, animals can think and feel,  
**[1:23:14-1:23:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:23:14):**  and therefore we should not eat them. Okay. So in reality, that philosophically, that doesn't  hold up very well because the premise doesn't match animals can think and feel. Okay. Well,  then we need to pay very, a lot of attention to how they think and feel, you know, what they feel  
**[1:23:31-1:23:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:23:31):**  we need to pay a lot of attention to that. So as part of the process, and he will admit this today,  as part of the process of taking care of livestock is, you know, a cow on the Alexandria place when  she is past her productive point. And let's say she breaks a leg or gets a booboo or some kind of  
**[1:23:47-1:24:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:23:47):**  thing like that. But think the best thing to do for her is not to just keep her alive. The best  thing to do is to have turned her into money. So then Brian Alexander could go and make other  animals happy. Yes. Okay. So that's, that's the point. And without that cow turning into money,  
**[1:24:03-1:24:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:24:03):**  at some point, Brian Alexander will not be able to continue to make happy steers.  So it's a process to make animals happy. And so the narrative technology, I'll get to that in a,  that it's kind of outside of this, but the, but I'll get to it. The, so that's, that's where the  
**[1:24:22-1:24:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:24:22):**  argument came from. That's my background in it is through philosophy. And since I have been on  social media, I am the vegan warrior, because I, you know, the arguments are pretty simple to take  apart, which basically comes down to if you really care about animals, make animals happy. And if you  
**[1:24:43-1:24:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:24:43):**  think that making animals happy is treating everything like a puppy dog, you're absolutely  mistaken. And if you don't believe me, go look at the state of most puppy dogs in the world.  There's a reason that people, there's a reason that we have the humane society. There's a reason  
**[1:24:57-1:25:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:24:57):**  that we have stray dogs running all over the countryside. All these said, human beings are  not good at doing things without a profit. We're not good at it. So yeah. Well, would you, so  yesterday, me and another guy, we were going to debate a vegan online on, we were going to go to  
**[1:25:14-1:25:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:25:14):**  TikTok live. And the big question is like, why would you eat a pig when you would not eat a dog?  Okay. Well, they came from the same place. They've lived in the house with human beings up until  150 years ago, they lived right in the house, pigs got everybody and they were companion animals.  
**[1:25:32-1:25:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:25:32):**  And they, and in some cultures, the dog, he was there to be eaten just like the hog in, you know,  our, our European tradition, just like the hog, everybody's there to get eaten someday. And,  and they're easy to get along with up until that point. And they make your life better up until  
**[1:25:49-1:26:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:25:49):**  that point. And that, so that's, you know, that's the simple, simple part of it. The other problem  that I have with veganism is, is, is it is, we're talking about non-vegan narrative technology. So  I'll explain what narrative technology is. Narrative technology is a pretty new term.  
**[1:26:10-1:26:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:26:10):**  I think that I've had a hand in, in, in defining it. But when you tell a story,  a story works a certain way, it's called the story circle. And I should have this up in front of me,  but, you know, a boy meets girl, or, you know, there's a guy and he's in his kingdom,  
**[1:26:28-1:26:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:26:28):**  he's in, and then he's called to an adventure and he goes on this adventure. And then he has  some setbacks and this kind of thing. And then it comes back from this adventure and he wins the  girl because he is now a night that's been, you know, and he goes and he slays a bad guy that was  
**[1:26:42-1:26:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:26:42):**  causing bad problems when he was just some normal surf, you know, and now he's back and he's a tough  guy and he gets a girl and they live happily ever after. Our brains work that way. We want that  story to work that way. We are set up that way. We want that four act story with conflict and  
**[1:26:58-1:27:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:26:58):**  resolution and a happy ending. So that once upon, so let's call it once upon a time, once upon a  time, actually. So when we're calling this technology, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a thing  that gets a, that gets a response. So when we say once upon a time, we can open the book of Genesis  
**[1:27:13-1:27:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:27:13):**  with once upon a time. Okay. Just like, so religion, all religions have a narrative aspect  to it. And they are a technology by which we order ourselves. Okay. Okay. Now there's a lot of,  there's, there's, you can read about this forever and ever and ever and never read all of it,  
**[1:27:35-1:27:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:27:35):**  but that veganism is following that same narrative path. But every single step of the way  they have to, they have, they're logically wrong. There's something, there's something they have to  completely forget about for their narrative to continue down the path. And it's pretty easy to  
**[1:27:56-1:28:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:27:56):**  disrupt that. My problem, my problem with the philosophy of veganism is it is based on lies.  It's you have to have a lie. You got to take that 10% of truth and turn it into a lie. And when you  do that in the name of religion, so that pisses me off online, I'll yell at you. But when you turn  
**[1:28:18-1:28:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:28:18):**  that into a religion and you try and turn that into action, then that's why people like me shoot  people like that. And I like, they can't reach some of the conclusions that they have unless  they ignore part of the data set or just completely ignore some facts. The thing that bothers me most  
**[1:28:40-1:29:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:28:40):**  about vegans. Okay. So let's do a black and white extreme example. We all convert to veganism,  regardless of what lifestyle changes that's going to make to you and I as beef guys and cattlemen.  So everybody goes to eat veganism. So how are we going to, everybody goes to eat vegan food. How  
**[1:29:00-1:29:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:29:00):**  are we going to grow that? How are we going to grow all that corn? How are we going to grow all  that soy? Where are we going to grow all that soy? Where are we going to get the chemicals to grow  all that soy? What's that going to leave the land looking like? Okay. So something else that social  
**[1:29:18-1:29:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:29:18):**  media is getting out there is some of the effects that farmers have on the land. And hopefully the  other four people that are listening are about ready to click us off. But there was one I saw,  it was back in the middle of June and it was a guy running a swather. Okay. This is the kind of the  
**[1:29:39-1:29:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:29:39):**  context. And so then a series of pictures flashed up about the kinds of rocks that he'd find in the  field. But they weren't rocks. They're pictures of different wildlife. Like it was a turtle and  he called one a slow rock. There was a baby fawn. There was a skunk. They called a stinky rock.  
**[1:29:59-1:30:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:29:59):**  There was an armadillo. There's badgers. There's all these other small mammals. And there was even  a deer in there. And I thought the whole context was like he was kind of joking that this is the  stuff that he runs over and goes through the swather when he's making hay bales. And I'm  
**[1:30:21-1:30:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:30:21):**  thinking, man, that's a sick fucking thing to make a joke out of. Like you're going to sit there and  tell me you're environmentally responsible when you watch these animals go through your machine.  And then you're going to post about it on social media. That's cool. That's cool. That really helps  
**[1:30:41-1:31:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:30:41):**  our argument. That really helps us look like we're good people. Like we're doing good things for the  environment. Like, you know, care for all life. Respect all life. If I see a frickin' six inch  long snake sunning himself on the road in the morning, I slow down and I go drive in the ditch.  
**[1:31:06-1:31:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:31:06):**  Yeah. I mean, I break for turtles. If I'm going down the county road and there's a turtle in the  middle of the road, I will put on my hazard flashers and pull over and try to get that turtle  to the side of the road that it wanted to be on. Yep. But we're going to go out and we're not going  
**[1:31:23-1:31:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:31:23):**  to give a crap when we're cutting our wheat and our corn about the wildlife we run over. We don't  think about how many insects we're going to kill when we load up with that insecticide and go spray  our cornfield. Oh, well it's just the grasshoppers. Go to kill the grasshoppers. Grasshoppers eat the  
**[1:31:41-1:32:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:31:41):**  corn. Well, what eats grasshoppers? Birds. What eats birds? You know, there's food chain. I think  there's food chain collapses that have happened that we haven't noticed, that we just simply  haven't noticed, that we're just ignorant to because we're stupid humans. Yep. So what you're  
**[1:32:01-1:32:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:32:01):**  saying is that swather is death and destruction going up and down the countryside just like a  combine and just like any other apparatus, you know, plow, disc, whatever. And that's a vegan  argument. So here's how vegans argue against that. Yeah. Well, you do the same. So yes, you kill all  
**[1:32:17-1:32:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:32:17):**  kinds of mice and bulls and all kinds of stuff by growing the, you know, the lentils that I want to  eat. Okay. Well, guess what? You do the same thing when you feed cows. Okay. Because your swather is  doing the same thing. So that's the argument. But so around this place. And then they start  
**[1:32:35-1:32:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:32:35):**  pulling out those fake numbers. Well, animal agriculture takes this much more land than plant  agriculture. We can grow this much protein on this much area with plant agriculture and animal  agriculture is so much less efficient. Like, those are all bullshit numbers that are all made up.  
**[1:32:52-1:33:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:32:52):**  Okay. For the ranchers listing, I'm going to say the most important thing about this whole deal  is we have to figure out a way to address that problem of killing people with our  disc vines, hay vines, swathers, whatever. Okay. So we have to figure out how are we going to do  
**[1:33:10-1:33:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:33:10):**  that? Okay. On this place, my mother-in-law, she gets a couple of fawns every year. Okay.  I don't know what a dollar, I don't know what a pound of venison costs on this place with all the  trail cameras, the Polaris buggies, the cover crops, they are deer hunting crazy. And they  
**[1:33:31-1:33:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:33:31):**  have spent more stinking money on hunting deer and supplementing them than you can possibly imagine.  And then in the first cutting of hay, we go up and we just bake. So they run over.  So what we're getting more fawns with the frickin mower conditioner or the hay vine  
**[1:33:50-1:34:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:33:50):**  that the hunters would take from that area. So we're trying to figure out right now,  and I'm doing the math. Well, I asked my mother and father-in-law, I said, what do you think  every fawn is worth on this place? And they're like, oh, I don't know. I'm like, how much money  
**[1:34:04-1:34:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:34:04):**  do you think you have tied up in hunting crap? And they, I seriously have, they have tens and  tens of thousands of dollars in stuff that is designed for them to go and get turkeys and rabbits  and deer. To the point where you are not allowed to do anything. You aren't even allowed to walk  
**[1:34:21-1:34:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:34:21):**  across this place sometimes during hunting season. I mean, they care very deeply about that.  So when I said, what do you think every fawn is worth? Let's say we kill five a year until the  end of time, you know, and then we have interest involved and so on and so forth. By my math,  
**[1:34:36-1:34:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:34:36):**  every single fawn is worth at least $10,000. Just, just, you know, looking at it from the 50,000 foot  view. So then how do we get so that first cutting of hay, let's get rid of that first cutting of hay.  Let's run the cows out on it. Okay, and which, which usually the first cutting of hay in this  
**[1:34:53-1:35:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:34:53):**  country is not worth a damn, because it gets all stemmy and seeded out before it's dry enough to  go and cut. And then half the time you spray in all kinds of sauce on it to get it to dry,  or you know, to cure. So the hay is not worth a shit for anything. And that's why I can buy it for  
**[1:35:11-1:35:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:35:11):**  next to nothing. And then they kill, so why can't we go and knock that first cutting down  with cattle, and then get second and third cutting out of it. That takes pressure off of our pastures.  You know, cows, they might be hard on turkey eggs, but they're not near as hard as, you know,  
**[1:35:30-1:35:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:35:30):**  hay equipment. So, you know, and they certainly, I think that they're complementary to rabbits.  And rabbit hunting around here, that's like, when rabbit hunting is going on, that is the only thing  that matters. And so, you know, that's a map that as ranchers, we got to figure out, are we doing  
**[1:35:50-1:36:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:35:50):**  the right kind of math? And every single one of us, I don't know any ranchers where  hunting is not a big component in their ranch, whether it be for family time, whether they have  hunters out there hunting, you know, for money. Hunting is a big component of it. And we need to  
**[1:36:09-1:36:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:36:09):**  figure out, we need to have an answer when a vegan comes and says, well, you know, hay vines kill  more fawns than anybody. And this guy named Chip McGregor told me, you know, you better have a damn  answer. Otherwise you're just part of the problem. But running around saying, hey, vegans are dumb,  
**[1:36:25-1:36:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:36:25):**  guess what? There's as many vegans as there are farmers now. And I think there's way more of them.  We have approximately the same number, but I think there are more,  I think there's more because the farmers are declining and vegans, I don't know that their  
**[1:36:43-1:37:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:36:43):**  numbers are going to continue to increase because regenerative agriculture, small local food,  the local food and foodie movement has certainly done some damage to their narrative.  I feel like there's a lot of vegans and vegetarians that have crossed back over that line  
**[1:37:04-1:37:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:37:04):**  once they've learned about regenerative agriculture. And, you know, like we talked about earlier,  you know, there's a lot of them that go vegan because they, you know, animal welfare issue,  they just, you know, they don't think that it's humane to kill another animal or they just think  
**[1:37:24-1:37:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:37:24):**  it's wrong to eat the flesh of another animal. Okay, fine. You can have that view. You can have  that view, but let's go ahead and let's take that step back and let's look at how the vegan diet  that you want to eat is made. And let's look at the environmental cost of that. Now, I'm not going  
**[1:37:43-1:38:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:37:43):**  to sit here and say that all vegan diets have horrible environmental consequences. I'm sure  there are some that don't. You know, I'm sure there's somewhere that you can live on fruits,  nuts and berries and wild grown vegetables. I haven't seen it yet. They don't have vegans,  
**[1:38:03-1:38:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:38:03):**  where you can do that, they don't have vegans. We have them in America, in cities with concrete.  Yeah, there's no developing civilization or no civilization developed on a vegan or vegetarian  diet, period. Like there is not a successful civilization in history that has had a vegetarian  
**[1:38:23-1:38:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:38:23):**  or a vegan diet, period. The Indians, the Janus would disagree with that.  In India, the Janus would probably disagree with it. It's not vegan, but it's...  And who are they?  
**[1:38:38-1:38:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:38:38):**  Well, they're one of the probably religious foundations of Western religion. And certainly,  to your point, there are some places if you have that argument, some vegans come and say,  well, what about the Janus? What about there's a whole lot of Indians? You know, there's a whole  
**[1:38:56-1:39:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:38:56):**  sect of India that doesn't eat meat. Now, they're not vegan.  Tell me what they've accomplished as a civilization. Like, what great works have  they built? What great exploration have they undertaken? Have they done anything notable  
**[1:39:10-1:39:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:39:10):**  as a civilization or are they just simply existing? I mean, they didn't develop through  the centuries. They didn't come from the last ice age as vegans, like they were vegetarians.  There was a point where they decided to quit eating meat. After we've developed its civilization  
**[1:39:25-1:39:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:39:25):**  and writing and tools and intelligence, there's a point where people are just like, hey, you know  what? This delicious red crap that we've been eating for the last, I don't know, 10,000 years  that's everywhere around us. I'm just going to stop eating that now.  
**[1:39:43-1:39:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:39:43):**  Yeah, that makes sense.  So I think that I think that a better...  Because the vegetarian from India is going to have a better next century than the average  
**[1:39:54-1:40:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:39:54):**  American will. So your argument may fall on some hard times here soon. Here is the argument that  I think is better suited for us. It has taken thousands of years for them to get to that point.  And the state of animal welfare in India is absolutely flipping atrocious.  
**[1:40:17-1:40:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:40:17):**  Cows walking down the road, cows left to starve. They removed the profit motive from  animal husbandry. So they still milk cows there. But when you're done with your cow,  you just turn it out because you get someone to smuggle it across to Pakistan,  
**[1:40:34-1:40:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:40:34):**  so where it's legal to eat it. But the cattle living in garbage, all this kind of stuff,  in India, that model, the outcomes that India has for livestock have been absolutely atrocious.  Horrifying. That's what veganism gets you because one of the coriander cows on the Alexandria Place,  
**[1:40:57-1:41:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:40:57):**  if she goes and she gets something wrong with her that causes her to not have a calf,  and Brian can't go and take her to town and turn her into something, she's going to...  The Red Hills of Kansas is not a fantastic place to go and die of malnutrition.  
**[1:41:13-1:41:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:41:13):**  So the profit motive needs to be there, and India is a prime example of why a profit motive needs to  be there. I think that's probably a better argument for the cattlemen. But at the same time,  that comes down to, let's go find a dead pile at a feedlot. Let's go get a feedlot.  
**[1:41:34-1:41:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:41:34):**  Let's go get that in the background behind us when we're talking about all the benefits of eating meat.  No one wants to do that.  We've got an image problem of feedlots. Not just an image problem. Feedlots are a problem.  
**[1:41:53-1:42:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:41:53):**  I mean, they're a problem from an animal welfare and animal husbandry point of view.  Environmental point of view.  Environmental point of view. I mean, they're bad.  
**[1:42:03-1:42:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:42:03):**  Yeah.  But for as much talking about the subject as I've done, I don't see a way to not have them.  At scale. I mean, again, we're back to a scale problem. Like trying to manage at scale,  
**[1:42:21-1:42:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:42:21):**  trying to feed people at scale. There's a part of me that wants to just say,  we should stop worrying about scale. Stop worrying about trying to feed the world.  Don't worry about feeding the world. Feed yourself.  
**[1:42:38-1:42:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:42:38):**  Feed your neighbor. Feed the community down the road. Let's do that. Let's feed ourselves  and let's feed our communities and not worry about feeding the world. Because in the whole  feeding the world mentality that we've seen the shift to, I mean, you're a few years younger,  
**[1:42:56-1:43:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:42:56):**  you're a few years younger than I am. I kind of get that sense. Like, like 44.  Me too.  Yeah. Okay. So I guess we're living.  
**[1:43:05-1:43:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:43:05):**  Clean living.  Yeah. So we've seen the same things. I mean, we were kids during the Reagan area. We've  watched all this consolidation. We've watched all our manufacturing get moved overseas. We've  
**[1:43:20-1:43:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:43:20):**  watched these meat packers consolidate, build bigger and bigger plants, bigger and bigger  feedlots. We've watched all the oil companies. We've watched the pharmaceutical companies.  We've watched all these mergers and these companies where we used to have some choice  
**[1:43:36-1:43:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:43:36):**  in tractors. You used to be able to get an Alice, a Massey, a John Deere.  You used to be able to get every color. Now you're lucky if your town has two different  colors of tractors in it.  
**[1:43:47-1:44:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:43:47):**  Yeah.  So we've seen all this consolidation. We've seen a lot of, we've seen another rural  exodus back to the urban areas. We went through this really weird period where you had to  
**[1:44:03-1:44:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:44:03):**  have a college degree. If you don't have a college degree, you'll never get a job.  Nobody will ever hire you. And the only way to get ahead in life is to go to college,  which now we don't have a generation of tradesmen. We have a half a generation of  
**[1:44:16-1:44:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:44:16):**  people that are over-educated with a degree they can't pay for in a job field that's  overstaffed. We've been listening to these lies and now they're all being laid bare.  The veganism argument, you're doing a great job of debunking it. We can talk about industrialized  
**[1:44:37-1:45:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:44:37):**  ag. We got this way because efficiencies of scale, but the thing that efficiencies of  scale ignore is the welfare of the individual. Whether we're talking about the welfare of  the individual person or the individual animal. Those are being ignored in the bigger society.  
**[1:45:04-1:45:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:45:04):**  We're people. We can generally take care of ourselves, but animals can't do that.  We have to be there to take care of them. We build these 10,000 head chicken barns, 6,000 head  hog barns, 75,000 head feedlots. A 5,000 head hog facility produces the same waste as 15,000 people  
**[1:45:36-1:45:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:45:36):**  per day. We'll just manage that in the lagoon. But if it's municipal waste coming out of people's  houses, we got to have all kinds of rules for that. There's a point where agriculture, where  we have to be good neighbors. There's a point where we have to square the feeding the world  
**[1:45:59-1:46:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:45:59):**  with taking care of our community. I'm not sure how all that fits together.  Well, I think the answer is, I don't know of any ag economists that have stepped up to the forefront  and looked at these economies of scale and looked at a lot of these problems.  
**[1:46:19-1:46:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:46:19):**  If anyone's listening to this and they're an economist, they know an economist that  knows anything about agriculture, get him in touch with Brian because that's one of the components  that we're missing is we can't explain a lot of this stuff. We can't because I'm not an economist.  
**[1:46:31-1:46:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:46:31):**  I'm a writer who's probably my major education. Brian's a sailor, so he just drinks beer  and carouses and punches his friends. That's what we need is the economic component  to someone to take this is to lay this out so we can go and sift through the problems.  
**[1:46:53-1:47:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:46:53):**  For instance, the economics of Walmart. Walmart's fantastic. It's a wonder of the world.  You can go there and you can buy protein for a dollar a pound. You can buy eggs for 10 cents a piece.  It's a wonder of the world. It is a wonder of the world because we are subsidizing the Walton family  
**[1:47:09-1:47:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:47:09):**  by giving all of their employees welfare. Plain and simple, you want Walmart to have jobs  on the shelves when you go in there, it's because of the people that you complain about on welfare.  Pretty simple. We give them a welfare check, therefore they can afford to work at Walmart.  
**[1:47:25-1:47:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:47:25):**  Walmart can make them and then they can go and take control of things and they can get 10 cent  eggs and they can do all that kind of stuff. Just so we don't get sued, it's not just Walmart,  Dollar General, Family Dollar. The model replicates. Walmart comes to me. I'm trying to sell beef here.  
**[1:47:44-1:48:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:47:44):**  I'd love to get a couple of news stories going to Walmart trying to sell.  You guys ought to see how I can write a paper. Come sue me. A bunch of hillbillies.  That's across. You get to a certain scale in agriculture and that's also the case  
**[1:48:06-1:48:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:48:06):**  because we're propping them up with our government tax dollars. I'm not saying we need to go  and cut that off tomorrow. Chip becomes dictator and says, hey, let's cut off government tax dollars  and a tractor doesn't make it out in the field next spring because that would cause a lot of  
**[1:48:23-1:48:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:48:23):**  big problems. But we need to be able to make noise and get things changed in the direction that they  need to change because eventually Bill Gates is going to show up with his driverless tractors and  run those guys out of business. Everybody's going to change. There's one thing I guarantee you is  
**[1:48:37-1:48:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:48:37):**  going to happen. Chip McGregor, you have the Chip McGregor guarantee. Shit's going to change. It's  going to change for you. If you think that everything is going to stay the same in your  operation, whether you're a big time farmer and you're running bazillion dollars worth of  
**[1:48:53-1:49:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:48:53):**  equipment, shit's going to change. I'll be fine, Chip. I've been farming this way for 50 years.  This is how dad did it. This is how grandpa did it. This is how we've always done it.  It'll be fine. This will all work. Everything's fine.  
**[1:49:10-1:49:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:49:10):**  And great grandpa built a big beautiful house out on the Prairie and you're living in a trailer.  So, yeah, I don't think that things are going that way. And here's the other thing. And this is why  I'd like to get an economist involved is eventually when someone's making money and they get to a level  
**[1:49:25-1:49:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:49:25):**  of efficiency. I know this much. I know this much about economics. They get to a level of efficiency  where they can't improve efficiency anymore. So they just stop delivering as much stuff.  OK, so right now, go to Wal-Mart, see what's on the shelves. They're still making as much profit.  
**[1:49:43-1:49:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:49:43):**  OK, but can you, you know, I looked all over hell for a bone in sirloin, a choice bone in sirloin  steak that I wanted to compare. I want to do a side by side comparison with one of my steaks.  And I could not find one of the damn things. In three towns, I had to go to my local butcher  
**[1:49:59-1:50:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:49:59):**  and go on, which I should have just started doing. But I wanted a straw man. I wanted one of their  select. I wanted one of their critters that should have been USDA select and they're calling  a choice. But no, I had to go and actually get a choice, really, to compare with, which is unfortunate.  
**[1:50:16-1:50:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:50:16):**  But, you know, I think we'll stand up. All right. So that's that's so now they just stopped. Now  we're at the stop delivering point of the economic cycle. Well, and that almost wants to open up a  whole different conversation and a transportation and logistics and supply chains. And.  
**[1:50:39-1:50:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:50:39):**  Well, I think that it's hard to talk about supply chain.  I'm sorry, go ahead. It's hard to talk about supply chains and logistics right now, because  everything it seems like everything is just breaking down, like all the supply chains are  
**[1:50:54-1:51:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:50:54):**  breaking. And I know that this I don't I don't think that this is visible to anybody. I'm sitting  in my freezer room. I have a bunch of 22 cubic foot freezers. I have a stand up glass door freezer  behind me that will after a good service today, it'll be a display. I can do every bit of logistics  
**[1:51:10-1:51:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:51:10):**  on this place from room to plate. I can do that with my three quarter foot myself. Well, and  chances are really good that my wife can do better than I can. But the logistically now we're buying  hay. And we are going to try and see how far we can get on corn stocks this winter and see how  
**[1:51:31-1:51:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:51:31):**  little hay we can get by with. But we can do everything on this place within three quarters.  And the reason being, I've had a CDL my whole life. But since I was literally since I was 19  years old, I've had a CDL. I came out of the military and my and I didn't my has that I  
**[1:51:46-1:51:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:51:46):**  allowed it to last while I was in the military. I went to take my hazmat. And they're like,  you know, it's gonna be the test weight this long as I asked for it. I'm not pulling any.  I'm not pulling tankers right now. Anyway. I went back then I went and then someone said,  
**[1:51:59-1:52:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:51:59):**  Hey, you want to come call some gasoline. I was like, heck yeah, went to get my hazmat and get  all my guys and have Matt all that kind of stuff. And you had to go and get a background check  to do hazmat. That's pretty easy for someone that's been driving or that's been running around  
**[1:52:12-1:52:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:52:12):**  his whole life for the top two security plans with a bunch of pretty fancy caveats on them.  And they and I ended the process was so painful. I didn't do it. I said, guess what, I like this  bedroom better. Anyway, I really didn't want to do a whole gasoline. But to get my guys,  
**[1:52:28-1:52:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:52:28):**  tankers, and their hazmat endorsements was really, really painful. And then one of the when when I  when I play when I play trucking business, one of my things I get I help you guys get their CDL  to get your CDL now. So to get a hazmat endorsement, you got to go through all kinds of  
**[1:52:44-1:52:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:52:44):**  things to get a background check. Right now you got to go to college to get your CDL. Guess what?  We already had a shortage of truck drivers. The problem is going to be driving truck sucks.  Anybody that's ever driven truck. There are people that are like, you know what, I just love driving  
**[1:52:58-1:53:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:52:58):**  truck like, fantastic. There's something wrong with you. That's absolutely to be away from your  family for extended periods of time. And and suffer along. I know there's people are gonna  don't send me emails, send it to Brian. But that it's not a fun job. It's called work for a reason.  
**[1:53:13-1:53:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:53:13):**  They get paid good money for a reason. And now we're making it more difficult to do that. And  we're talking about, you know, the days I'll tell you who the they are, the days are in this. The  days are Pete Buttigieg, Indiana boy, who runs the Department of Transportation. And I am absolutely  
**[1:53:30-1:53:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:53:30):**  positively convinced that they would like to replace the truck driver with autonomous vehicles.  And by they I mean, Pete Buttigieg and the tech sector, Silicon Valley, and Pete Buttigieg would  very like to replace truck drivers with a autonomous version. Of course, they would love to  
**[1:53:51-1:54:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:53:51):**  have the government come in and say by 2035, all trucks on the road will be autonomous. Yep. And  that's gonna be good for battery manufacturers and electric truck manufacturers. And,  and, you know, the only thing that's stopping autonomous trucks right now  
**[1:54:09-1:54:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:54:09):**  is people not being comfortable with it. So you know, the lady in the minivan, like,  Oh, I don't know if I want to have a computer driving next to me, you know, like she's doing  a better job, which she probably isn't. But when she runs out of when she runs out of macaroni and  
**[1:54:22-1:54:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:54:22):**  cheese and hot dogs, she'll be all for it. So that's, that's, that's the day. And I think  that's the direction that that is going. And we're gonna have some hard times between now and then.  Yeah. So we gotta, we gotta kind of head towards wrapping up because I gotta get to work before it  
**[1:54:41-1:55:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:54:41):**  gets over 100 and go look at some stuff. You're talking about wanting to get an economist on.  I'd love to find the right one, but it's got to kind of be the right one. And the reason I say  that I don't think that, okay, let me back up. I don't feel that the Democrats, the Republicans,  
**[1:55:04-1:55:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:55:04):**  or even the libertarians or anybody else I've ever heard for that matter  has a good enough understanding of the economics of labor and food production.  Yeah. I don't think, I don't think that there,  
**[1:55:21-1:55:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:55:21):**  there is a political system or an economic system that adequately addresses  the labor and the energy inputs and economics of food production.  And I think you have to, I think you have to pick a side and this is, you know, like we're talking  
**[1:55:37-1:55:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:55:37):**  about the jungle up in Sinclair, you know, that's from my, my education and literature. You have to  pick a side, you know? So I took a class on labor and literature and there are people that have  doctor's degrees in literature and they specialize in talking about unions and stuff, you know,  
**[1:55:54-1:56:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:55:54):**  they're out there. So you have to pick a side. If you want an education, you got to pick a side at  some point. And I don't, and I don't, I don't know enough about it. It's, you know, Keynesian  labor versus capital, that kind of thing. So I just like, I'd like to find someone, you know,  
**[1:56:10-1:56:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:56:10):**  I'd like to explain to someone that I have these autonomous mechanisms that go and take, take  forage and turn it into delicious steak. And they do it, you know, all on their own. And I only need  to see them every so often. I'd like to talk to an economist about that. So someone knows someone  
**[1:56:26-1:56:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:56:26):**  it's out there. That's a component we're missing though. Well, hopefully somebody will write in.  All right. We're heading out of here. So did I forget anything? Nope. Any other action or  anything else you want to get off your chest? Nope. You guys get in the grass fed beef business.  
**[1:56:45-1:56:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:56:45):**  The demand is, I mean, you got to sell it. You got to, you got to go and talk to people.  There's, there's a downside to it. You got to go talk to people, but everybody, you guys,  if you have replacement heifers that you're going to keep, don't give them any shots,  
**[1:56:59-1:57:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:56:59):**  don't give them any antibiotics, make them go and do it on their own. Keep them on grass.  Treat that heifer just like the cow that you wish she was.  And then out of those replacement heifers, heifers keep a couple extras  
**[1:57:12-1:57:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:57:12):**  and the ones that don't breed, turn them into grass fed beef. If you cannot, if you don't have  the desire to go and get butcher dates and all that kind of stuff, go find someone like myself  that wants to buy them. Okay. And we'll, we'll figure the rest out. Everybody needs to start  
**[1:57:27-1:57:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:57:27):**  transitioning into some type of more sustainable production model because the people that we're  selling beef to, they stopped breeding a long time ago and their numbers are going down.  Yeah, I think that's good advice for everybody in livestock or in agriculture period.  
**[1:57:48-1:58:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:57:48):**  Start looking at different ways to do it and different and know who your customer is  and know how you should be serving your customer because things are changing.  And I think we're about ready to our society, our country. We're very close to entering a period of  
**[1:58:04-1:58:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:58:04):**  change that will be so rapid. It'll make your head spin. Yeah, yeah. We're heading into the,  we're heading into the 1920s and 1930s. All right. Where can we find it? Where can people  find you on social media to send you hate mail? They can find me at vegan warrior two on TikTok.  
**[1:58:23-1:58:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:58:23):**  What else? I have a website. I can't remember the name of the website.  bluecreekfarmbeef.com. Blue Creek Farm. Yep. Beef.  Dot com. And that is, if you live way on the other side of the country,  
**[1:58:47-1:59:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:58:47):**  we'd love to talk to you. We'd love to have you on the newsletter. I don't know how excited I am  about shipping stuff across the country. If you are in Cincinnati, Louisville, or in the surrounding  or Indianapolis, and you're in the surrounding States, we would love to be part of community  
**[1:59:02-1:59:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:59:02):**  with you and get you in touch with someone that can, that can help feed you and your family.  Great stuff. Good stuff. Thanks, man. I'm honored to be on. I feel like people are gonna  watch this and you're like, we went from Fred Provenza to this dipshit. I won't tell you how  
**[1:59:22-1:59:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:59:22):**  I feel most of the time when I'm talking to some of my guests. I'm like, people tune in to keep  listening to me or they hear for the guests. I'm not, I can never be sure. Well, thanks for having  me on. It was an honor. Well, thanks for doing this, Chip, and have a great day, buddy. You too.  
**[1:59:38-1:59:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/77-Chip-McGregor-Regenerative-has-some-Problems-e1m924s#t=1:59:38):**  See ya. Have a great week.  