---
title: 79 Michael Kinsey I Dont Sell Beef I Sell Trust
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2022-08-29)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:00:00):**  Well, hello. It's good to have you back for another week.  This episode is sponsored by our amazing patrons over on patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher.  New this month on Patreon. I'm announcing Patreon merch rewards for some of the higher tier so make  
**[0:00:13-0:00:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:00:13):**  sure you go check that out at patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher. There's a link in the  show notes. Last week I spent two days out in Lake and Kansas at the bottom line conference and I  really enjoyed meeting some more of you podcast fans and getting your feedback. I hear you and  
**[0:00:28-0:00:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:00:28):**  over the next few months expect some changes. One reoccurring question that I get is how do you find  out about soil health events? Well, I found a good one on the Kansas Soil Health Alliance's website.  Check kssoilhealth.org forward slash events for more information or check the link on my link  
**[0:00:45-0:00:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:00:45):**  tree and I'll also put a link to that in the show notes. Just two more things before we get into it  today. Make sure you're following me on all your favorite social media platforms. I post different  kinds of content on different platforms. I've also been working on a website and I'm going to  
**[0:00:58-0:01:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:00:58):**  incorporate a lot of your suggestions. Just be patient. I'm only one guy and I'd rather hang  out with my cows than build a website. You can find that at redhillsrancher.com. All right,  gotta pay some bills. If you haven't heard about Anchor by Spotify, it's the easiest way to make  
**[0:01:12-0:01:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:01:12):**  a podcast with everything you need all in one place. Let me explain. Anchor has all the tools  that allow you to record and edit your podcast right from your phone or your computer. When  hosting on Anchor, you can distribute your podcast on listening platforms such as Spotify,  
**[0:01:27-0:01:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:01:27):**  Apple Podcast, Google and more and it's super easy. It's everything you need to make a podcast  in one place and best of all, Anchor is totally free. Download the Anchor app or go to anchor.fm  to get started today. All right, that's the business and the bills. If you've been with us  
**[0:01:42-0:01:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:01:42):**  since the very beginning, today's guest isn't a stranger. If you haven't, you'll have to go all  the way back to episode two. That's right, I'm bringing back Michael Kinsey from Reverend Wild  Ranch to give us the lowdown on everything he's been doing for the last year and a half.  
**[0:01:55-0:02:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:01:55):**  We're going to talk about water runoff and everybody's favorite topic lately, drought.  Michael shares a few things he's learned from having a good dog for a partner and we discuss  the future of backyard chickens and what he calls a city subsidized farmer. Here we go with episode 79.  
**[0:02:25-0:02:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:02:25):**  This meeting is being recorded. Do you consent to the recording, sir?  I do consent to the cavity search you're going to receive later.  So, Michael, it has been a while. How are you, buddy?  
**[0:02:39-0:02:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:02:39):**  Been quite a while, my friend. I'm good, man. I'm really good. Just happy we finally got some rain.  I know dry in this part of the country is not the same as dry in your part of the country,  but it got awful hot and awful dry here for a while. So, just happy to be growing some grass  
**[0:02:55-0:03:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:02:55):**  again. We're not going to pull them out and have a measuring contest in the first two minutes of  the podcast, but drought is definitely way different in Chickamauga than it is in the  Red Hills of Kansas. I don't even want to try to compare how much rain that anybody's had, right?  
**[0:03:12-0:03:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:03:12):**  No, not at all.  We're still powerful dry here. The day before we're recording this, which is obviously way  before release date, there's a dangerous thing. I woke up and it was sharing here at the house.  
**[0:03:27-0:03:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:03:27):**  So, I get up, get ready to go to work. I take my muck boots with me. I get down to headquarters,  eight miles south. It's not raining.  Of course.  
**[0:03:38-0:03:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:03:38):**  Getting the gator pulled out of the shop after about five minutes, it started sprinkling at  the shop. We got down to the south end and started to move cows. We were down there for about an hour  and a half. It didn't rain on us down on the south end of the ranch. I get home early afternoon and  
**[0:03:51-0:04:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:03:51):**  there's about between 10 and 15 hundreds in the rain gauge. I barely got anything done at the  ranch. It's like no effective rainfall basically.  Yeah, the rain situation is depressing, but there's nothing you can do about it other than  
**[0:04:05-0:04:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:04:05):**  have a plan before it happens and to know it. So, let's talk about that. You said that you've  gotten some rain now. You're kind of back out of a drought.  Yeah. So, basically like I said, way different what classifies as a drought here as compared to  
**[0:04:25-0:04:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:04:25):**  most of the rest of the country. But we went basically from the beginning of June,  had like nearly record high temperatures all of June. It was like above 100 degrees  and no effective rainfall in June. July 9th, we received like maybe a quarter inch of rain.  
**[0:04:49-0:05:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:04:49):**  It was like a deluge rain. It wasn't just like a nice sprinkle that lasted a couple hours.  Then we went most of July up until I think the 28th is when we got our first rain. Then in the  last 10 days, we've gotten five inches. I've watched the cover crop that I seeded in May  
**[0:05:06-0:05:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:05:06):**  go from being like six to eight inches tall and wilted and just waiting, praying for rain  to now I'm grazing off my weanling calves and stuff that's over my head. It's amazing.  The root system that cover crop had to put down and search for water to survive  
**[0:05:28-0:05:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:05:28):**  then allowed it to soak in that rain and just take off. So, yeah, it's literally a night in the  difference in 10 days. It's crazy. So, I know what would happen on my place if I got five  inches of rain in just in an hour. I could probably soak all that in. Probably the same for years.  
**[0:05:49-0:06:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:05:49):**  What about some of your neighbors? Actually, Brian, I would say even us, if we got that much rain  in an hour, we probably wouldn't infiltrate at all. That's one place where I'm really trying to use  cover crops to my advantage. I am going to end up demoing a RanchWorx aerator this fall to try to  
**[0:06:12-0:06:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:06:12):**  see if we can mechanically make some headway there. But due to the nature of our soils being  heavy, heavy red clay and also the surface limestone we have, you don't have to dig very  far here to hit rock. Where's your infiltration? Sandy loam is a lot different than heavy georgia.  
**[0:06:33-0:06:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:06:33):**  Yeah, I mean it's just like, so the good thing about the clay is once that clay gets permeated  with moisture, it will hold that moisture for a long, long time. But at the same time, once that  clay gets dry, to re-permeate it is a serious pain. It's not like you can just get a heavy rain  
**[0:06:54-0:07:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:06:54):**  and all of a sudden it's wet again. Most of it will shear. And also, it's a topographic issue too,  because we have really steep, steep ridges. We're talking very steep slopes. And so a lot of that  rain doesn't just percolate, it shears off. So you get a lot of velocity with your water as well. So  
**[0:07:18-0:07:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:07:18):**  one thing I'm going to try, I mean we cover crop the farm this summer, but I'm also going to try  this fall, I'm going to plant a lot of tillage radish and try to see if we can create some  biological infiltration to try to break up the hard pan and really try to go deep. So I want,  
**[0:07:39-0:07:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:07:39):**  like there's no way I can subsole here. There's too much rock. So we're going to try to do about  everything aside from that to see what we can do to loosen up the soil layer so we can help our  infiltration. But as you said, compared to neighbors of mine who say are grazing grass  
**[0:07:59-0:08:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:07:59):**  right now that's this tall, because it's been overgrazed all summer, I would definitely say  we're in a better position to take on heavy rainfall and not suffer the kinetic damage  that the rainfall gives. Kinetic damage, meaning erosion.  
**[0:08:15-0:08:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:08:15):**  Correct. It's caused by raindrops, not by shear force. Right. Right. Raindrops capping over the  soil or a whole bunch of raindrops running down a hill grabbing rocks and all kinds of other  things on their way. Precisely. How did you make it through the drought? What was,  
**[0:08:36-0:08:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:08:36):**  and like I said, it's kind of hard to hear about a 60-day drought when it hasn't really rained.  Oh, I know. Yeah.  So what's your thought process? Did you identify it early enough? Were you able to get,  
**[0:08:50-0:09:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:08:50):**  hey, did you de-stock? What was your strategy to manage through?  So currently, I was operating, we've decreased our numbers, which that had been my plan previous to  the drought anyway. I'm trying to cull now for quality in the herd and my goal is to be down  
**[0:09:07-0:09:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:09:07):**  under 300 head by the time we hit winter. So that's been my plan all along, drought, no drought.  However, previous to, like when the drought really started to set in, obviously kudzu is part of my  drought reserve plan. So using that, and I've talked to you about that, not on a podcast in  
**[0:09:29-0:09:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:09:29):**  the past. It's like, circle back to kudzu, don't worry. Okay. Okay. Well, that was part of the  drought reserve for me. But also, like, I mean, I'll say I was telling some of my friends, local  friends, that we were within about 20 days of a pretty severe de-stock. Like we were going to have  
**[0:09:50-0:10:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:09:50):**  to drastically limit our numbers and start feeding hay if we didn't receive the rain that we received.  And I think part of that too is just like, y'all stocking rates out there mirrors your environment.  And same thing here, like I'm running 400 head on 380 acres of pasture. That's not something you can  
**[0:10:17-0:10:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:10:17):**  really do. And so, yeah, so like the problems, when you say like, oh, well, a 60 day drought,  like, oh, that's not that bad. But when you're running at capacity, or even technically a little  over capacity, it the problem is still there, regardless of like, yours is kind of built in,  
**[0:10:37-0:10:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:10:37):**  where like 150 day drought might be more than norm for you. But at your stocking rates,  it's kind of affects us the same. Does that make sense?  Well, yeah, it's all a management question. And just making sure you've got enough grass for  
**[0:10:52-0:11:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:10:52):**  your critters and can stockpile till you're going to grow more.  Bingo. And so like for us, we were about 20 days shy. And yeah, so like, I have a buffer in there  where it's like, I can start making plans to do things. But I definitely, I put the cows in the  
**[0:11:08-0:11:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:11:08):**  woods, and let them graze kudzu and whatever they can browse that I'm that bought me three  additional grazing days. And really, it saved my butt because I was going to have to come back and  start grazing areas that were not in full recovery yet, which I didn't want to do. But I was like,  
**[0:11:30-0:11:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:11:30):**  if I have to do this to try to make one more quick pass to try to pray for rain, then I'll do it.  Right. And it bought me the time I needed. So I've been in that situation before I've been  been right down to the wire where I've been either getting ready to go graze something,  
**[0:11:47-0:12:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:11:47):**  it wasn't quite ready, or I need a little bit of rain. And yeah, I've always gotten the rain.  Yep, thank God. And I'll take it every time. But that was, it was definitely one of the more  challenging things I've dealt with in my time here. I've dealt with a lot of wet and cold,  
**[0:12:11-0:12:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:12:11):**  wet winters. And we've dealt with some dry, but like I have never seen. So we own the most of the  watershed that comes across of our property. That's nice. That's really nice. Yeah. Yeah.  So that like, we know, like, I don't mind to let my cows drink out of the creeks, because  
**[0:12:30-0:12:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:12:30):**  it's spring water coming out of the mouth, like, and there's nothing upstream from it.  Right. So I'm not questioning like, Oh, is that getting, you know,  Is there an industrial hog barn up there? Yeah, exactly. So I don't mind to do that. But  
**[0:12:47-0:13:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:12:47):**  like, the primary artery waterway that goes through the farm is just like,  dry in early June. And that's, I mean, I've seen it go dry before in August, when we were dry,  but I've never seen it go dry that early in the summer. And so that, obviously, I was kind of  
**[0:13:04-0:13:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:13:04):**  terrified as to what that was going to mean. Because typically, this time of year is hard  when it really gets hot and dry. And we've kind of seen that this year, like for the next 10 days,  forecast is in the high 80s. It's just abnormal. So whether we were in the high 80s here.  
**[0:13:26-0:13:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:13:26):**  Well, I don't know that humidity will get you high 80s is what we've had some load,  like, there's been some days where it's been high 80s at 730 in the morning.  Yeah. Oh, I know. Like all of June, it was 90 plus degrees by the time you get out in the sun's not  
**[0:13:43-0:14:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:13:43):**  even up yet. So believe me, I know all about it. It's just terrible. Just the sun's just been angry  all year. Angry. It's like somebody told me we're in a La Nina weather pattern or, you know, I'm no  meteorologist or anything. But it's kind of like a two and a half year long La Nina pattern that she  
**[0:14:03-0:14:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:14:03):**  just doesn't want to leave. She doesn't want to give up here. So I mean, but it's funny, because  last summer we had the wettest summer on record here. It was just insanely wet. I was so over  stocked in grass that I almost, and I thank God I didn't pull the trigger on it, but I almost went  
**[0:14:26-0:14:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:14:26):**  out and bought an extra 200 head simply because I needed that much extra. I had that much extra  grass. I was like, I might as well take it on and do it. And of course, when you're in a situation  like that and you're inexperienced, I guess you would say like me, you look at a situation like  
**[0:14:43-0:15:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:14:43):**  that and you're king of the world, man. You're like, oh man, this regenerative ag thing I'm doing,  it's kicking butt and taking names. Like I can run eight times more cows than my neighbors. Like,  I'm going to show the world. And then you get a hard summer and you're like, okay, let's pump the  
**[0:15:01-0:15:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:15:01):**  breaks a little bit. It's humbling. It's humbling, but humble is good. Well, I'll say this. Do you  know, as we're both kind of dealing with our own different perspectives on drought, it sure does  feel good when the neighbors are going, man, you sure got a lot of grass. Why are you pulling those?  
**[0:15:17-0:15:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:15:17):**  Why are you de-stocking? Well, because the ones that are left have to eat this all winter.  Have you seen the price of hay lately? Yep. Yeah. That's something that I've been dealing with too,  is with the neighbors driving by and being like, man, you still got some good grass.  
**[0:15:34-0:15:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:15:34):**  You should let me know that. Yeah. And I'm like, no, no. Like I'm like, you know,  but it's funny because how much your perspective changes, you know, I, what they see is,  you know, I have good grass, but to me, I'm like, I'm not really satisfied with that. Like I was,  
**[0:15:51-0:16:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:15:51):**  it doesn't look as good as I think it should. Um, because they're driving by looking at a pasture  that has 30 days worth of recovery on it. And I'm like, yeah, wait till it's 60 days.  Um, well in their perspective, 30 days is probably the most recovery they've ever seen a pasture.  
**[0:16:05-0:16:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:16:05):**  Yeah. That's very true. Very valid. Um, but yeah, man, it's, uh, I tell you. So right before we got  on here, I moved my weanling calves and those bulls that you used that came from here, dude,  I'm telling you, I'm going to have to send you some videos and stuff. Like you're going to be  
**[0:16:25-0:16:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:16:25):**  really, really happy with those Corey crosses on those bulls. I'm telling you, I can't wait to see  the results. Well, about the time this episode comes out, they should be starting to get on the  ground about, I think mid September is a mid September to beginning of November is when we,  
**[0:16:40-0:16:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:16:40):**  when we should have bred them up. Um, I've got seven, I've kept seven of them. Okay. And I,  all seven of the cows, I really, really like, yeah. Like everything that we did on a fall try  last year, if I could have picked out what I wanted, bread, what I actually really wanted,  
**[0:16:58-0:17:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:16:58):**  wanted him to breathe, it would have been these seven. So I'm happy with that. And I'm really  excited to see how they turn out. Are you thinking you're going to keep bulls out of them? If you  have any good bull prospects or are you thinking, uh, probably because that would be, that would be  
**[0:17:14-0:17:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:17:14):**  a good back cross. Yeah. See, that's what I'm doing. So like my favorite bulls, um, are South  pole cross to those flex influence bulls. Um, and so I'm keeping them to then back cross. Cause now  I'm going to have some Shona South pole bulls that I'm keeping or, or Michonne or red Angus.  
**[0:17:36-0:17:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:17:36):**  Yeah. I'm just an amalgamation of just genetic diversity over here. Uh, well, let's be fair.  I'm getting your cast offs. Yeah. Well, no, you, that was never intentional. Uh, so you  say you named him Carlos, didn't you? Yes. Yes. Carlos the bull. So, uh, tell me about when I,  
**[0:17:57-0:18:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:17:57):**  so when I sold him to richer, um, I did so thinking like that would be a good,  easy way for him to make genetic inroads in his program. And then obviously, you know, he had  Richard, I love Richard. He's all over the place, man. Um, yeah. It's just like, so when all of a  
**[0:18:18-0:18:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:18:18):**  sudden I found out it was on your doorstep, uh, I was like, wait, what, what? Um, now I'll say this,  um, I might've told you this if I have correct me, but his dad was Hamish, which was probably  the favorite, my favorite bull that I've ever had, or one of them. Um, remember, I kind of remember  
**[0:18:37-0:19:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:18:37):**  him. Yeah. He was the most masculine of the South pole bulls that I ran. Um, and he's now working  at poly at poly face. And so, you know, for those that don't know that name, I don't know. Yeah. Um,  so that's his sire. Um, his dam is a now dead Michonne of that full blood Michonne that came  
**[0:19:05-0:19:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:19:05):**  out of the central Florida herd, which if those who don't know, that's the herd that  is basically the original genetics from what was brought over from Africa. Um,  I want to say it was in the nineties. I think it was like 90 mid nineties. I can't remember  
**[0:19:21-0:19:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:19:21):**  exactly when, um, because I think if memory served me correctly, they originally came to  Texas and then that Texas herd got sold to Florida. Um, and I think they were brought  to Texas in like the early mid nineties. And then I think somewhere around 98, something like that.  
**[0:19:41-0:20:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:19:41):**  And I might be butchering the numbers. Uh, they went down to central Florida, but anyway,  his mother was a, what high male is on two calls a two and three. Um, so she bred at two years,  or she cabbed at two years old. She cabbed at three years old under ultra high density, uh,  
**[0:20:00-0:20:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:20:00):**  grazing situation, um, unassisted. So like, from a hyper maternal standpoint, that bull  is fabulous, but I don't feel that that bull is going to give you any terminal value whatsoever.  Um, and that's why I go back to the influence, not maybe not to the full extent, but like even  
**[0:20:28-0:20:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:20:28):**  across is going to bring back some of that carcass value, um, without siphoning away too much of your  efficiency. Um, or at least that's what I'm going for. Yeah. I mean, there's definitely a great  point you're making with the Michona South pole on the, you know, coming from the bull side,  
**[0:20:48-0:21:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:20:48):**  not doing a whole lot for my terminal. And I see that, I see that. And I know I'm still going to  need to work on my carcass a little bit. And, um, you know, there's a, there's a Hereford bull  breeder, uh, 30 miles West here that had been really keeping a close eye on their program for  
**[0:21:07-0:21:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:21:07):**  the last four years. And, uh, one of my clients who listens to the show, hi, Tim, um, he brought  a couple of Hereford bulls up to put with his, you know, kind of run in the middle terminal cows.  And you know, those two Hereford bulls, they don't look like they've lost a pound. They are checked  
**[0:21:26-0:21:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:21:26):**  in, they're working. They're always with, always with, always with cows and everybody was rolling  their eyes going, yeah, that's what bulls do. Dumb ass. You know, I've seen a lot of black and red  bulls lose interest in cows on day three and go hide in a far corner of the pasture. Yep. Or just  
**[0:21:44-0:22:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:21:44):**  go stand amongst themselves in a corner, you know, go stand amongst themselves and not be checked in  with cows and not always be following some cows around like, yeah, I don't care how good your EPD  are. If some bitch won't stay with the cows, he's not doing his job. Correct. Well, I'll say this,  
**[0:22:04-0:22:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:22:04):**  and I learned this from Jaime Elizondo. He told me that it's not always the bull you see chasing  the cows. That's the most effective, uh, because a old mature bull, when it's not a mature bull,  knows when to be effective. Um, so I noticed this, um, we're in transition right now from  
**[0:22:26-0:22:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:22:26):**  switching from all fall calving to I'm transitioning to spring calf, but I'm going to  do that over the course of two to three years. So I don't just have like a glut in production.  So I'm slowly like pulling bulls and pushing bulls into, from the fall regimen to the spring  
**[0:22:46-0:23:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:22:46):**  regimen. So this summer, um, was the first time I've ever turned out the full cast of bulls,  um, in the summertime. And I noticed that arrow, my most mature South bowl bull,  he didn't go chase females like he did. Like when I first turned him out, he went straight to him.  
**[0:23:06-0:23:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:23:06):**  Um, but as we got deeper into June, those super high hot days, um, he'd loaf in the, in,  in the shade during the day. But by the time we got to the time I pulled him, his whole underside  was like raw. Like he had been breeding the crap out of some cows, but he's doing it at night.  
**[0:23:28-0:23:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:23:28):**  Yeah. And so Jaime had told me that like, when you're dealing in really hot conditions of a,  a smart bull, if you will, an older bull, see a young bull, just wear himself out. You know,  he's a, he's a high school freshmen sent to the strip club. He doesn't know what he's doing.  
**[0:23:42-0:24:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:23:42):**  He's just, he's just chasing it wherever he can get it. Uh, whereas like an older mature bull,  yeah, the older, more mature bull is going to do it when he knows he's most effective. So like  at night he can walk out there, it's 80 degrees instead of 110, and he's not exhausting all of his  
**[0:24:03-0:24:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:24:03):**  efforts. So take that for what it will. We'll see what the actual results are of that. Um,  in the fall when we get our calf crop, but I think, um, something to be said for a bull that can  really effectively do his job. And I think sometimes our metrics are based off what we  
**[0:24:23-0:24:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:24:23):**  observe, but we don't observe as if we're constantly in the pasture, you know, like,  um, and so like, for instance, I was talking to Jeremy Eames the other day, which if you don't  know him, he's a, uh, he owns Lakota ranch in Virginia and is a Devon breeder. And I was called  
**[0:24:45-0:25:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:24:45):**  him up because I saw a post he made on Facebook where he has a bull named red dude who for three  years in a row has bred 90 cows in 45 days. Um, and yeah, so I had to call him. I was like,  uh, that's the kind of performance, you know, regardless of breed, I don't care about breed. Um,  
**[0:25:07-0:25:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:25:07):**  that's the kind of performance out of a bull everyone should be striving for. In my opinion,  that's what I want. I want, because I mean, especially when you start talking about the  average cow calf producer, um, and I know kit Pharaoh kind of talks about this a little bit,  
**[0:25:22-0:25:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:25:22):**  you know, he claims his bulls can service 50 females. Um, and he says that fairly regularly,  but you know, to the average producer, you know, that's not value adding. That's not,  that's just your standard producer. You know, if you could go from having a, a stall of bulls,  
**[0:25:42-0:26:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:25:42):**  that's 10 deep to a stall of bulls, that's three deep. That's a huge savings in cost. Um, and  honestly your quality is going to go up. So I always look at that as like serviceability of  a bull. Now, granted, you're always going to, I would never tell somebody like, well, just run one  
**[0:26:00-0:26:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:26:00):**  bull because I've done it. And that's a huge mistake. Yeah. Something bad can happen. Anything  bad can happen. Yeah. Yeah. Any of you'd ever know. But at the same time, like the thought of  having a bull that are having a couple of walls that have the capacity to do that. And now  
**[0:26:16-0:26:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:26:16):**  obviously that bull's in his prime. I think he's seven, six, seven years old. I didn't actually,  I don't remember if I asked him, I don't. So don't quote me on that anyway, but a bull's not  going to be able to do that like his whole life. Um, but still like if you got three years of a  
**[0:26:35-0:26:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:26:35):**  bull breeding 90 females, like that bull paid for itself in my opinion. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Then  you can talk about, you know, 10 or $15,000 for a bull if he's breeding that many cows.  Yeah. Yeah. I mean, like, that's like, Oh, why that actually pays itself back. It's much in  
**[0:26:51-0:27:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:26:51):**  a sense that like, I just got a border collie. Um, I'm not sure if you're aware of that or not.  Oh, yeah. I look, I spent a little bit of time stalking your tech talk. So I had some material  to ask you today. Yeah. I was going to ask you about your little, okay. Well, I guess I said,  
**[0:27:08-0:27:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:27:08):**  wait, right. Okay. Let's talk about Roo dog. Um, Roo is a dog that like, okay. So I used to search  for a border collies. I've had people ask me ever since I got on Tik TOK, why don't you use horses?  Why don't you use dogs? That's, um, and I don't use horses for a myriad of reasons,  
**[0:27:26-0:27:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:27:26):**  namely because they are very expensive. Um, so we're good dogs, but so are good dogs.  The difference is I can get two or three good dogs for what it costs me to get one good cutting horse.  Um, and a dog won't buck you off and break your arm. That's very true. Also into a gate  
**[0:27:47-0:28:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:27:47):**  and break your leg. Well, and also with dogs, um, you know, two good dogs can do the work of about  three or four good men, uh, when it comes to gathering cattle, um, or more, I've seen some  really good dogs that could work in big country. Yeah. Oh yeah. And see, like, so for me, Roo came  
**[0:28:06-0:28:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:28:06):**  from Wyoming. She's from big country. Um, I got her because she was listed on ranch world ads.  Um, and I was looking for a short coat border collie that was timid, that had like, didn't,  wasn't a real hard bite. And so the rancher that had her was selling her because she had no bite.  
**[0:28:29-0:28:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:28:29):**  He's like, she's got great eye, but she, you know, she can move sheep all day long, but she has no  bite. And me being a rookie with herding dogs, I come from a gun dog world. Like I didn't want  to run out there with cattle that have never been treated with dogs, have a dog that, you know, like,  
**[0:28:46-0:29:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:28:46):**  uh, a hanging tree, that's going to go out there and just grab ear, heel, nose, whatever he can get  as mall and hanging tree dogs, not for the novice stock dog handler. No, as you know, I don't,  I didn't want a dog that was going to a make my cows really flighty of a dog or aggressive towards  
**[0:29:07-0:29:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:29:07):**  the dog. And B I wanted a dog that had an easy handle, you know, that I didn't have to worry about  that dog running off the rails and getting his own ideas of chasing those cows.  Um, so it was really me just dipping my toe into the water in a kind of a safe way. And man, did it  
**[0:29:26-0:29:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:29:26):**  not open my eyes to just how much a good dog can do. Um, so I'm currently in the process of looking  for another dog, uh, that has a little more, uh, kitchen it's giddy up. Uh, but it's definitely,  uh, like a little more aggressive or more speed. Well, not, not really any more speed.  
**[0:29:49-0:30:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:29:49):**  Ruth pretty quick, but I I'm looking for a dog that's probably got more bite. Like, cause  Roo has none. And when I say none, I mean none, uh, run up and fake at it. And yeah, like she'll  run under under feet that are getting kicked over her head and she'll, uh, but if a cow turns around  
**[0:30:08-0:30:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:30:08):**  and, and walks towards her, she's backing up. Um, Hey, you know, so yeah. And the, the rancher,  I got her. Yeah. And so the rancher I got her from sent me videos before I even got her of her  working with her dad. Um, and she's a great backup dog. Like she'll be right there behind, you know,  
**[0:30:25-0:30:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:30:25):**  she's quartering behind them, but you need a dog that can walk up and when the cow faces them,  we'll nip a nose, uh, put a cow in its place. So I, that was one of those things. I was just real  scared of an overly aggressive dog. Cause I got young kids, uh, you know, I don't want a dog  
**[0:30:42-0:30:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:30:42):**  that's going to heal bite my, my kids trying to hurt them. Um, but at the same time.  Cross blue healers off your list.  Oh, I did. I did early on. I'll, I'll let you run that road. Um, although I, they are the most  
**[0:30:59-0:31:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:30:59):**  adorable puppies in the entire world. Uh, they are little demons. So I'll, I noticed though,  that border collies are different and that's kind of why I sought them out because my former  neighbor who's since packed up their sheep operation and moved to Michigan. Um, she raised  
**[0:31:16-0:31:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:31:16):**  for and trained border collies. And so I've seen them work before and I was always kind of the  mammered by them and they, they have a pretty genteel spirit, but they can turn it on when  they need to. Um, and so with my limited experience, I was like, that seems like the safe bet. And so  
**[0:31:32-0:31:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:31:32):**  that's kind of what I'm looking for. I've passed over a couple of kelpies, but like I said, I'm  kind of a novice to that part of this world. So, um, just kind of feeling my way through it,  but definitely has opened my eyes, changed my perspective a lot. Cause I used to tell people  
**[0:31:49-0:32:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:31:49):**  like, I don't need a dog, you know, like I, I go out here, reel this pollard wire up and holler,  come on cows. And my cows come like, I don't need a dog. And it's until you actually have the dog,  could you realize, Holy crap, this comes in handy. You don't realize how much extra walking you got  
**[0:32:06-0:32:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:32:06):**  to do. And then you start thinking about what you can get the dog do, and then what that can allow  you to do with cows and how many different things that you can start doing. Yeah. So like, you know,  that's something I've looked at is I told my wife this the other day is I really want three border  
**[0:32:24-0:32:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:32:24):**  collies. I was like, that's what I've made it up in my mind. And I'm not going to get there  overnight. That's going to be a long-term thing. Um, but I was like, I think I could almost sit in  the house and the ranch could run itself. If I had three border colleagues, like they're so freaking  
**[0:32:38-0:32:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:32:38):**  smart. They don't close gates, Michael. They don't, but you know, I'm going back to the Bob  Kenford way of things. Let's start just training dogs to in herd, just like get, get those cows  moving and keep them, let them be the artificial predator. You know, I like it. I think that's a  
**[0:32:57-0:33:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:32:57):**  cool idea, but you still get it. Then you got to train the dog to move the gals cows around. Oh,  yeah. That's a joke by the way. But, um, I do think there's some possibilities there, but I think,  um, ultimately I think with the number of stock that I run, um, having two good dogs,  
**[0:33:15-0:33:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:33:15):**  cause I'm not getting rid of Ruth, love that dog, but she ain't got the bite. So she's always going  to be back up. Um, like I think two, two more good dogs and I've, I've really be able to  accomplish a lot as far as cutting out stock. Um, like right now, for instance, I still run with  
**[0:33:32-0:33:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:33:32):**  pretty limited infrastructure here. Um, so, you know, if I've got to cut four steers out,  haul them to the processor and the cows are, you know, a mile away from any, you know,  corral or anything, you know, I can take panels out, build a corral pin, but I've still got to  
**[0:33:49-0:34:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:33:49):**  run them out above, you know, whether it be dependent on how tightly I'm grazing them,  a four acre paddock or a 40 acre paddock. Um, and so like, that's still not easy to do because  their whole mentality is to stay with the herd. Um, so I think being able to cut out stock,  
**[0:34:08-0:34:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:34:08):**  things like that, there's just a lot of things that dogs, um, good dogs allow you to,  but there's also a lot of, and I talked to, uh, Kyler about this a little bit. Um,  that's bad dogs can screw you up really bad. So that's why I've really, I really tried to, um,  
**[0:34:28-0:34:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:34:28):**  you know, look and be, do my due diligence before I just like, Oh yeah, that's good dog  purchase that one. Um, but anyway, that's, that's kind of the, the, uh, up and down.  I've heard a lot of dog guys. Well, I haven't heard a lot of dog guys, but I know a lot of  
**[0:34:45-0:35:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:34:45):**  dog guys that have good dogs and they usually travel with a pack of three. Yeah. They've got  their good dog, their bracket dog, and then their dog, they're either training or is working towards  retirement that just kind of is there to, you know, backstop the other two and yeah. Three good  
**[0:35:03-0:35:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:35:03):**  dogs, three good dogs. Like I can get done a lot and I bet where they really come in handy.  It's not just during daily moves. It's not during your normal daily routine. It's when stuff goes  off the rails on your neighbors or, you know, they've packed their bags and they're running  
**[0:35:19-0:35:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:35:19):**  down the road going to town. Yep. That's the thing is for me. And I I've said that before I even got  through is like, you know, I don't need a dog on a daily basis from a standpoint of, you know,  really head and healing, whatever, like trying to move stock, they will move themselves to fresh  
**[0:35:39-0:35:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:35:39):**  pasture when I real that line up and call them. But, you know, because I'm running with limited  infrastructure stuff tends to go off the rails quite often. Uh, you know, there's the taglases  around here that just decide they're going to, there's no fence that can hold them and they're  
**[0:35:59-0:36:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:35:59):**  going to live as free spirits. So, um, though, you know, I'm constantly dealing with calves getting  out, cows getting out. Um, and when I say getting out, I don't mean leaving the property, but like,  you know, being in a pasture, they're not supposed to be in yet things of that nature. And, you know,  
**[0:36:17-0:36:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:36:17):**  that's where I go back to saving steps. Um, you know, they're just not where they're supposed to  be. They're not where they're supposed to be. Um, so that dog will go out there and, you know,  bring them back instinctively. And whereas previous to me having a dog, I had no help.  
**[0:36:37-0:36:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:36:37):**  Hey, I was out there by myself, you know, waving her arms around like a lunatic trying to get,  you know, run the cow back to where it needed to be. Um, it's, and so really it kind of comes down  to, uh, just having backup, honestly, uh, more so even than I think the dog outworking me or,  
**[0:36:58-0:37:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:36:58):**  or anything of that nature. It's like, you know, when you've got some of the ground we run here,  it's very steep. It's still pasture, but it's very steep. And you know, when that cow can easily  outrun you up a hill, uh, and you know how it goes, like you get out chasing a cow, that's out,  
**[0:37:15-0:37:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:37:15):**  and you're trying to get her back in. They're going to do everything in their power to make  you say every word under the sun that, you know, um, usually can't say anything when that situation  is going on. Cause I'm so out of breath. There you go. Um, and so once again, having a dog  
**[0:37:31-0:37:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:37:31):**  that lives for that, um, I've only dealt with that once since having Roo and it was life-changing.  And so anyway, that's, that's pretty much where I'm at now with dogs. I've kind of realized like,  okay, this is definitely something I want to pursue. Um, so you'll probably definitely be  
**[0:37:50-0:38:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:37:50):**  hearing and seeing more from me on that front in the future.  Yeah. I've had a lot of requests for stock dog content and this isn't it like I was,  I wanted to sit down with Kyler and do this like several weeks ago, but something came up kind of  
**[0:38:05-0:38:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:38:05):**  at the last minute, he had a few things going on and he said, can we, you know, can we wait a while?  Yeah, no problem. We'll push that down into the fall. So yeah.  Well, I think you, uh, you definitely need to do that when you can, cause I would like to see more  
**[0:38:17-0:38:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:38:17):**  of that. Um, I it's cause like I said, it's something I'm a novice at and I definitely, uh,  want to learn more about it. You know, I, I I've said that in my dealings with Roo,  you know, and really with any dogs, I personally don't feel like in my operation,  
**[0:38:33-0:38:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:38:33):**  a dog belongs in the corral. Um, I don't really have much use for a dog once the cattle are pinned  because at that point I want to, I want low stress stock handling to take hold. And you know,  there are some dogs out there that are great at manipulating cattle in tight quarters,  
**[0:38:51-0:39:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:38:51):**  no doubt about it. Um, my dog is not one of those dogs. Um, and I really find that I can have a  that I can handle the stock more effectively without a dog present. But, um, I definitely  think in the open, whether it be in the pasture or open country, like, man, I think I understand  
**[0:39:11-0:39:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:39:11):**  the old, like the old ways of like a good horse and a good dog can really make all the difference.  I'm just not ready to go down the path of the horse yet.  Well, you're also not really on that large of a place, honestly. And  
**[0:39:30-0:39:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:39:30):**  dog definitely makes sense for you. And then, oh, for sure. It's definitely a very cost effective  and stress reducing part of your operation. Yeah, for real. Like, well, and just to cap the  whole thing off is, you know, we were kind of talking about bulls and bulls paying you back  
**[0:39:47-0:40:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:39:47):**  in terms of their effectiveness as dogs in comparison to, you know, cowboys that you got  to hire for the day. Uh, you know, if something goes off the rails, I've got friends I can call,  I guess, but you know, most of the time they're not available or they're busy or whatever. It's  
**[0:40:03-0:40:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:40:03):**  going to be an hour before they can get there, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Or dogs really that.  Yeah. That dog's really a cheap insurance policy. Uh, I can see that. I mean, I don't know what day  help rates are in Chickamauga, Georgia. Well, you got to find it. Yeah. Rare, rare to find it.  
**[0:40:22-0:40:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:40:22):**  That's the problem. It's not, not nearly as a common place. Yeah. Well, I don't want to say  a number out here on the podcast and put it out publicly what I've paid day help, but, uh, it's  high. It's high. But then again, you know, you got to consider that guy's commitment, even if it's  
**[0:40:39-0:40:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:40:39):**  only going to take them an hour to an hour and a half, once they show up, you know, they've got to  go catch their horse, hook up to the trailer. Yep. Get their crap together, get loaded,  wherever you're at, do the job and then reverse the whole process. Correct. So it's not, you know,  
**[0:40:57-0:41:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:40:57):**  when I got to call day help to do a job, it doesn't matter if the job takes an hour,  takes 30 minutes or half a day. I mean, they're there. If they're there a half a day, it's,  they're going to get a half a day, right? Yeah, absolutely. They're going to get a half day rate,  
**[0:41:13-0:41:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:41:13):**  which, and that's the least that I'll pay somebody. Not going to say what that is.  If you really want to know what my half day rate for day thugs,  they thugging is you can, you can send me a message. There you go.  
**[0:41:24-0:41:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:41:24):**  So you had mentioned in weaning. Yeah. Like how far are you into weaning and have you preg checked  yet? We are currently 20 days into weaning. I am trying to get to around 35 to 40 days before I  turn them back in with the herd. I know a lot of people, once they go to weaning, they never go  
**[0:41:49-0:42:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:41:49):**  back to the parents until they're bred. I don't run two herds here any longer than I absolutely  have to. So they will go back in to the main cow herd after about 35 to 40 days. If anybody keeps  sucking, they go to the stock yard. That's just kind of the way I do it. And for better for worse,  
**[0:42:13-0:42:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:42:13):**  weaning, we late wean. So we're, I didn't start weaning until the calves were nine months.  That's, I kind of like to do that. Give, because I don't like to give the moms too much of a break.  I want to give them a break to recondition themselves before calving, but I don't want  
**[0:42:31-0:42:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:42:31):**  to give them a quarter off. I give them like two months. Okay, here you go. Get in better condition  calf. Because I want, they are the creep feeder. I want them to be putting pounds on that calf right  up until it, the tipping point basically. And as far as preg checking goes, my plan is right now,  
**[0:42:51-0:43:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:42:51):**  if you've been stalked my TikTok, you saw like I just tore down my death shed, my terrible cattle  handling facility. And we can talk more about that in just a second. But I won't preg check until we  install the new system. And that's probably going to be in September.  
**[0:43:10-0:43:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:43:10):**  I did have facilities upgrades written down on my question sheet.  Yeah. Okay. Well, we can go right into that if you want.  Yeah, yeah. Good segue. So what are you building?  
**[0:43:19-0:43:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:43:19):**  Yeah, there you go. So I got together with Arrowquip, started talking with them. And I have  like, this is what I call my interim facility. This is I'm trying to work with what I have,  for the most part, but some of what I had was just absolutely not affected at all. And it was really  
**[0:43:43-0:44:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:43:43):**  a liability in terms of safety and animal handling. So I was working with a system that was  leftover from a dairy that was left, that was then bequeathed to a beef operation that was here  before me and has been in existence for 40 to no, much longer than that, probably 60 plus years.  
**[0:44:06-0:44:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:44:06):**  And anyone will tell you that working cattle on slick concrete is a really stupid idea.  And I've been doing that for four years. So after many close calls and one  injury that I sustained, I decided it was time to change that. So I leveled what I call it the  
**[0:44:34-0:44:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:44:34):**  death shed, just because it was just a low shed over concrete. And that was effectively what was  being used as a crowd tub to a half rotten wooden alley to an old rust bucket palco shoot.  Hey, I'll say something about those old, old rotten corrals. Yeah, gotta be a gentle handler,  
**[0:44:56-0:45:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:44:56):**  or they're gonna tear them up. And we got by in this country for a long time.  For a long time on wooden corrals that you can just slam cattle in.  Yep. You learn to be vastly more effective. However, in my talks with Arrowquip and some  
**[0:45:18-0:45:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:45:18):**  of their people is they told me they're like, you know, a lot of my problems were light driven,  because I was bringing cattle out of an open corral into a dark shed and then trying to  get them to go into a light alley. It just causes all kinds of discombobulation in the cow's mind.  
**[0:45:38-0:46:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:45:38):**  Also, like our alley was just, like I said, half rotten wood, obviously not adjustable.  So I was constantly having calves turn around in the alley or get stuck turning around in the alley.  I know how that feels. Yeah, there was just a lot wrong with it. And when you're young and stupid,  
**[0:46:04-0:46:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:46:04):**  you can have fun with it for a while. There's multiple times that cows would bolt out down  the alley, hit the head gate as fast as they possibly could, slip it, get caught by the back  hips. And I'd run out, grab them by the head, bulldog them, and shoot them with a vaccine or  
**[0:46:21-0:46:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:46:21):**  whatever I was needing to do. That only works until it does. Yeah, that's fun. Well, it's what's  even more fun is when you hip catch one of my Corrientes or Longhorns in the head gate,  and they're up there flailing around with two feet of spear on either side of their head.  
**[0:46:38-0:46:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:46:38):**  Funny enough is I do have a few cattle. Most of them are gone now, but I did have a few cattle  with horns on them. And it was always those that got hip caught. For whatever reason, I guess,  because if you've got somebody running the head catch that's not really trained, and also it's  
**[0:46:58-0:47:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:46:58):**  even if you are really good, if that animal's moving at speed, it's just hard, especially  when you've got to judge the width of those horns coming through. But yeah, I know all about that  life. It sucks. So anyway, long story short of it is I'm getting a hydraulic chute at Alley and a  
**[0:47:18-0:47:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:47:18):**  BudFlow tub, which I think will radically change my cattle handling. I tore out, I haven't even  posted this on TikTok yet. The concrete pad that was there, I had one of my buddies with  an excavator come in, bust it all up. We used it as fill, extended the pad, put it down filter,  
**[0:47:47-0:48:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:47:47):**  capped it in crusher run. And I'm going to build a pole barn over the whole system.  Yeah. So when it's done, it will radically change our flow. But more than anything, Brian,  the thing I'm exceptionally excited about is currently I have no method by which to weigh my  
**[0:48:13-0:48:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:48:13):**  cattle, which drives me insane. That's less than an ideal.  Yes. And I'm finally going to get load bars under my chute.  Nice.  
**[0:48:23-0:48:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:48:23):**  And I am thrilled to freaking death about it. And of course, there's a lot of other things that  compound on that. When working your stock becomes easier to do, you're more likely to do it,  not pass it by. And so I'm now looking at the potentials of maybe start doing some EID.  
**[0:48:45-0:49:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:48:45):**  If you're putting load bars on your scales, you're already ear tagging, right?  Mm-hmm. Okay. So your bottom barrel Z tags are probably a buck 20 now for whatever they are.  Yeah. The 840 EID tags, if you want some next year, you better order them now.  
**[0:49:06-0:49:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:49:06):**  Yeah. That's the thing.  That's the thing.  It's getting anything now.  
**[0:49:09-0:49:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:49:09):**  Yeah. But the cost is real reasonable. You're talking like an extra $3 a unit.  Yeah.  For the ear tag and Z tags, if they stay in the ear 18 months, a lot of times you're  
**[0:49:21-0:49:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:49:21):**  lucky much less two, three years. And the 840 all flex tags are designed to be a permanent thing.  But if you've got load bars under your scales, you're already going to have an electronic weight.  Why screw that up by trying to transcribe it to a piece of paper?  
**[0:49:35-0:49:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:49:35):**  Bingo. And that's where I've started to shift my mindset, which actually it's not a shift  of mindset. I'm always trying to be more and more efficient. It's just a matter of  taking it bit by bit. And now instead of taking it a little bit at a time, I'm trying to make  
**[0:49:55-0:50:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:49:55):**  big strides to really take my time back. Because that's something that I really was only working  the cattle probably on a good year, I'd work them twice. On a bad year, I'd work them once.  Just due to a limited help and it being a royal pain. I think this has been two years ago now,  
**[0:50:19-0:50:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:50:19):**  we worked the whole herd. Calves tagged, vaccinated. I mean, we did everything. Cut calves,  literally full herd work, preg checked. And we worked a 16 and a half hour day.  Which with the systems we were using, we were beat to death by the time that day was over.  
**[0:50:45-0:51:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:50:45):**  Yeah. So that kind of is the stuff we've been through that led me down the path of obviously  things have to change. And I want to get to a point where I look forward to working my cattle.  Because right now I can't condition my animals or with I say right now, with the system we had in  
**[0:51:08-0:51:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:51:08):**  place, I couldn't condition my animals to take to the shoot as if it was a low stress thing. Because  there was nothing low stress about it. And so I think being able to regularly run the animals  through whether you're doing anything to them or not, just let them walk through the shoot.  
**[0:51:28-0:51:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:51:28):**  Just run them through the system. One thing that I've wanted to try is run them into the shoot,  catch them, and then have somebody give them a piece of cake or a couple pieces of cake.  Yeah. And then let them go. Yeah. And I think a positive reward reinforcement training scheme  
**[0:51:52-0:52:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:51:52):**  like that could really pay off. Trust me, I totally get what you're saying. I'm sitting  here thinking about like, man, that'd be nice. Yeah. You know, and thinking like, man, it'd be  cool to have the pens right in the middle of the operation. But mine aren't. They're almost in a  
**[0:52:10-0:52:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:52:10):**  corner. They're definitely on an edge almost in a corner. Sounds familiar. Yeah. It's a balancing  act. Like, yeah, I'd like to bring them down during this timeframe to do this. Or, well,  maybe we'll just do it out in the pasture instead. You know, go out, sort the bolts off in the pasture  
**[0:52:28-0:52:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:52:28):**  instead of bringing them in and stripping bulls up. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. That'll be a little more  pain in the ass, but it's lower stress on the cows. If I had a set of pins in the middle of  the fricking operation where the cows were, you know, it'd be a lot simpler. But if wishes were  
**[0:52:43-0:53:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:52:43):**  horses, I'd be on a flat piece of ground that I could strip graze all of it and everything. Yeah.  Yeah. We got to deal with what we got. Yeah. Listen. So I made a deal with one of my neighbors,  gosh, last week. He's got about 15 acres runs. He has five cows. He runs a food truck.  
**[0:53:02-0:53:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:53:02):**  Okay. Great guy. Love him to death. And really interested in building local supply chains.  And so got to talking with him. He actually came by the ranch this morning.  But I need somebody to develop my bullcabs for me because I don't, you know, it's kind of funny.  
**[0:53:22-0:53:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:53:22):**  It's like, well, I have plenty of land to most people around here. Like, oh, you got all that  land. Why don't you just put them somewhere? And I'm like, well, because it screws up everything else.  I know exactly the feeling. Yeah. And so I got to talking with him about developing my bullcabs for  
**[0:53:39-0:53:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:53:39):**  me. And, you know, I was like, why don't we do this? No one on I send you 10, my top 10 bullcalf  prospects and the low three will just ban them. Or you can slaughter them as bulls and run them  through your food truck. And he was like, sounds like a plan, dude. And so is that what he normally  
**[0:53:58-0:54:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:53:58):**  does? He runs his own through the food truck? Yes. So he has a couple of mama cows. And then  occasionally he'll buy a steer from somebody. And so that's one of those things where trying to  capitalize on things, but I'm like, we have to start. I know I'm kind of somewhat running off on  
**[0:54:16-0:54:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:54:16):**  a tangent here, but. Oh, that's fine. Chase that rabbit son. But we have to start building localized  supply chains that can value add. And that's something where I I'm like thrilled to death  about the prospect of that. Like I'm just basically going down a list of things I'm excited about.  
**[0:54:34-0:54:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:54:34):**  Things I'm excited about right now. I'm really excited about that in the future because  first of all, it's a win-win. He has one mama red Angus cow right now. She has thrown twins  two years in a row and raised both of them both years. He's going to bring her to me  
**[0:54:56-0:55:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:54:56):**  because he's like, I don't need her. I'll just raise your bull calves and get the steers that  I need. And so it's really an I scratch your back, you scratch mine situation.  But also he's like, but if you ever end up with like a cow that's on her last leg, can't  
**[0:55:14-0:55:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:55:14):**  really do anything. He's like, I can sell your ground beef to the food truck. Like we'll just  get a process and you have standing processing dates, like just take her and I'll take it.  So building those resilient, like value adding supply chains is really something I've been  
**[0:55:33-0:55:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:55:33):**  harping on lately, but sorry, my brain is running in like a thousand directions right now.  Cause I'm now like in my mind, regurgitating all these things, me and you have talked  about on the phone, like in previous conversations. It's like, oh yeah, we should talk about that.  
**[0:55:50-0:56:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:55:50):**  So on that note, totally unrelated. Well, not entirely, but I want to tell you what my soapbox  of late has been. And my soapbox of late, and I'm not telling you that I have the most poignant,  well thought out mindset on this, but first of all, listeners of the podcast are,  
**[0:56:16-0:56:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:56:16):**  are they're used to that from me by now. Oh yeah, for sure. Our brains work brilliantly alike. It's  a scary thing. I think right now my soapbox has been the destruction of American agriculture  from a standpoint of development. And what I mean by that is what, like most people,  
**[0:56:39-0:57:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:56:39):**  when you hear that, what comes to mind is, you know, suburban sprawl. And that is what I mean,  but in a different context. I think partially what is destroying agriculture today is the,  I call them the city subsidized farmer. And what I mean by that, or the wannabe homesteader,  
**[0:57:07-0:57:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:57:07):**  one or the other, they can, and for that, what that looks like in my area, and what is pricing  me out of being able to buy additional agrarian land is people that want to flee the city by five  to 10 acres, build a Chip and Joanna Gaines farmhouse, put a barn on it that houses a brand new,  
**[0:57:32-0:57:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:57:32):**  you know, call it Kubota or John Deere subcompact tractor that mows that grass.  And they have, they maybe if you're lucky, they have a dog and a couple of chickens. And so  what that looks like in my area is you have, you know, a 100 acre farm, 200 acre farm,  
**[0:57:55-0:58:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:57:55):**  150 acre farm, 300 acre farm, and they have all been sublotted into five and 10 acre tracks  that now have these houses sitting right in the middle of them. And some of them put up fences  and some of them don't, but none of them do anything that is agriculturally productive.  
**[0:58:15-0:58:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:58:15):**  And I know this is happening kind of everywhere, unless you're hyper role.  But that's something that really has... I don't see it in my neighborhood, but I can see it from here.  Yeah, yeah. I think that's just one of those things that has replicated itself. And I don't  
**[0:58:34-0:58:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:58:34):**  know if it's a popular culture thing. And what's funny is I had a conversation with  my brother-in-law, brought some of his cousins down here from Northern Illinois, Wisconsin area,  they're from Milwaukee, Chicago, city dwelling folk, and came out here and I was kind of  
**[0:58:54-0:59:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:58:54):**  on that soapbox talking to them because one of the guys was telling me, he was like, you know, hey,  I really would love to just get me about 10 acres and do this. And I told him, I was like,  well, see, it's people like you that are putting me out of business. And kind of, he's like,  
**[0:59:10-0:59:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:59:10):**  you could tell his eyes got real big. And he was like, I've never thought about  me wanting this as taking away from people that are actually producing food.  I'm like, yeah. I was like, land produces things. And when it's gobbled up into non-productive  
**[0:59:29-0:59:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:59:29):**  blocks, it never goes back to production. It will never be in production again,  unless there's some catastrophic cataclysm that's going on in the world.  And, you know, a couple of hundred years from now, sure. But in our society, we never move backwards in that regard.  
**[0:59:53-1:00:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=0:59:53):**  Or it's very rare and it's a very long time table.  It wouldn't be in the foreseeable future of where we're at now in the world.  No. So we talk about like needing to produce more food for a growing population, blah, blah, blah, blah,  
**[1:00:08-1:00:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:00:08):**  the whole song and dance. But at the same time, and I'm not talking about the people that are truly focused on self-reliance.  There's a difference. There are people that are going out and would give their left arm to buy 10 acres,  and they're going to use every square inch of it to grow food for their own family or for their neighbors or whatever.  
**[1:00:29-1:00:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:00:29):**  And that's beautiful. And I think we need more of that for sure.  But what sucks is those are the people that are getting priced out of buying that land, for the by and large.  So I've started doing some consulting and I've done a couple consultations for people that I,  
**[1:00:52-1:01:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:00:52):**  and I'm not poo-pooing anyone here, but like for people that have money, that have bought acreages,  not just small, like you're not talking about like subtracts, you're talking about actual productive farms.  Right.  
**[1:01:08-1:01:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:01:08):**  And my first question is always, does this need to cashflow? And I've never gotten the answer of yes.  And that bothers me. And so I was telling one of my cattle friends the other day, I said,  I've decided I'm not taking on any more clients that say no. From now on, if anybody  
**[1:01:28-1:01:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:01:28):**  wants my help, they have to want to be in agriculture, not just living some daydream on  big tech money or windfall that they got from somebody dying or whatever.  Bitcoin or selling board ape NFTs.  
**[1:01:50-1:02:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:01:50):**  Yeah, there you go.  I'm going to have to borrow that if anybody ever actually does come to me and wants me to do consulting.  That's going to have to be the first question. I really like it.  
**[1:02:01-1:02:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:02:01):**  Yep. I've learned like, I mean, and once again to that same soap box,  the guy that I told you, my friend does dirt work for me that came out with the excavator and took  down the death shed with me. He kills six beef a year. He has 20 acres. He raises a few cows,  
**[1:02:20-1:02:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:02:20):**  kills and sells six freezer beefs a year. And I asked him, I was like, what are you selling most  beef for? He said, well, I just take it to scale it all up here, which is like our local state  inspected facility. He's like, can I just ask him, what's the going rate? And that's what I sell it  
**[1:02:42-1:03:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:02:42):**  for. And so I started questioning him on his inputs and his costs. And you figure out real quick  that this is a hobby. That's all it is. It's just a hobby that's subsidized by your other business.  And especially for those prices. So I kind of walked him through, like I crunched the numbers  
**[1:03:06-1:03:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:03:06):**  the other day. For me, my area with what I'm paying for USDA processing, if I were to go to  the local sale barn, throw out all my ethos around being organic, grass fed, grass finished, all that  jazz. If I was just going to say, I'm going to be in the ground beef business and I want to sell as  
**[1:03:28-1:03:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:03:28):**  cheaply to as many people in my local area, because my community is very poor. And I want  to feed as many local people as I can. What that looks like in my area is I would go to the sale  barn. I would probably be paying around $400 for an average coal cow. I have to truck her from the  
**[1:03:53-1:04:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:03:53):**  sale barn to the processor. I have to pay a dollar a pound USDA inspected processing, get her processed  and you're probably talking about, let's just use even numbers, say a thousand pound cow. Let's say  she hangs it, make the numbers easy. You think you're going to get 400 pounds of retail on a  
**[1:04:15-1:04:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:04:15):**  thousand pound cow? No, we're doing easy math though. But you're not talking about hanging,  you're talking about actual retail. No, you're not going to. I found the, no, you're going to  get 300 pounds. Your yield is going to be pretty low. So if you're lucky, you'll get 300 pounds.  
**[1:04:33-1:04:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:04:33):**  So let's say you got 300 pounds to sell now. Well, like if you counter, you've got a total  investment once you factor in your time, which, Hey, here's the funny thought. You should get  paid for the work you do. This is foreign ideas in agriculture. I can't believe you don't work  
**[1:04:53-1:05:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:04:53):**  for free. How dare you? It's a lifestyle to work for free. It's $5 a pound. That's your cost.  Your cost on that beef is $5 a pound. So when you go to the Walmart, which I don't, but if you go to  the Walmart and they're selling beef for 450 a pound, my question to him was, where do you think  
**[1:05:16-1:05:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:05:16):**  that beef is coming from? I said, because their margin, yes, they can produce that beef for far  less than a dollar a pound. Like the Packers can, like, they're probably, I don't know what their  production rate is, but I'm guessing they're probably 25 cents a pound,  
**[1:05:34-1:05:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:05:34):**  somewhere around there. And that's a shot in the dark guess. I have no idea,  but I know that they're very effective. So they're probably far less than my local small processor.  It's just due to volume. So you take that and say, there's still not a whole lot of margin in  
**[1:05:52-1:06:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:05:52):**  that beef, especially when it has to go change hands against to a wholesaler to then go to a  retailer and the pockets have to get padded here. You don't just need $5 because that's your cost  FOB, the locker. You still have to take it from there and put it to your customers hands.  
**[1:06:11-1:06:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:06:11):**  Correct. Correct. And so what I'm getting at is that beef is not coming from the U S I was like,  does some of it does some of it's the super cheap stuff that, that skates through like for sure.  But I was like, those Packers don't have any allegiance. Like they're going to import beef  
**[1:06:32-1:06:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:06:32):**  from Brazil, from Africa, from Australia, wherever they can get it. And especially in terms of  Brazilian and African beef, they're going to pay pennies on the dollar to what they would get in  the U S and you're looking at now you've got huge margins. And so when you look at JBS or national  
**[1:06:52-1:07:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:06:52):**  or cargo or Tyson, and you look at how much their profits have gone up in the last couple of years,  that's when you start to put the pieces of the puzzle together. But anyway, circling back to my  conversation with that guy is I told him also, you are putting me out of business. I said, because  
**[1:07:13-1:07:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:07:13):**  my cattle have to make me a living and I, I want to sell locally here. I have to be able to cover  all of my costs for the business. Right. And obviously agriculture is no matter how low  overhead you try to do it, it's still typically a fairly high overhead business unless you're  
**[1:07:34-1:07:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:07:34):**  wheelie extreme. And so I was like, you're driving me out of business because you're selling for  literally half, well, almost half of what I have to sell for because I have to account for all my  costs. And so that is another thing I've been down that rabbit hole lately and on that soapbox,  
**[1:07:54-1:08:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:07:54):**  whatever you want to call it. Cause there's other local producers that are doing the same thing  that are marketing to the same people that would be my customers. And I'm not talking about the,  cause I always tell people, I don't sell beef. I sell trust. That's my thing. I don't sell beef.  
**[1:08:13-1:08:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:08:13):**  Like if I'm more than happy to tell people, I told a guy this today, a potential customer,  he wanted to split a beef with one of his friends asked me to compare my beef to Wagyu.  And I told him, well, I'll be happy to do that, but it's an apples and oranges comparison. And  
**[1:08:29-1:08:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:08:29):**  you should probably just tell him he's not my customer. From a marketing standpoint,  I said this from the get go, sometimes the best customer you can have is the one to avoid.  And I've learned that lesson the hard way is, and that's typically how it happens. You have  
**[1:08:49-1:09:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:08:49):**  somebody call you interested in buying half a beef or a whole beef, and they're going to split  it with somebody and you don't know who that somebody is. And then they get the beef and that  somebody was expecting prime grain finished beef that they're used to buying at the Costco.  
**[1:09:06-1:09:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:09:06):**  And it's like, that's not what I produce. And so, yeah, like why does this beef have so much flavor?  Well, it's because it wasn't grain to wash the flavor out and it was dry aged and you're not  used to eating dry aged beef either. It tastes like beef. It has a beefy flavor. Yeah, exactly.  
**[1:09:26-1:09:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:09:26):**  But then again, like most, all of my customers, my actual customers, I've never had one not tell me  that my beef wasn't the best beef they've ever had. And that's not to say that I'm producing  the best beef on the planet. I'm not. I'm producing the best beef I know how to produce.  
**[1:09:42-1:10:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:09:42):**  But still that makes me feel pretty good, but I've learned that there's a lot of people out there  that are value minded and their value is really cheap. Like they are conditioned to cheap food  as we all have kind of been for decades. They are not our customer though.  
**[1:10:02-1:10:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:10:02):**  They are not our customer. The like the person. So that's why I've barked at you about this before  on TikTok and I barked at Cattle Guy about this. When you tell people buy from the rancher,  save money, I get furious because first of all. I don't say that. I don't say to buy from the rich  
**[1:10:22-1:10:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:10:22):**  you get to save money. I know, but I know me and you were on the same thread with Cattle Guy.  This has been like a year ago about that is you. So first of all, we're selling something  the grocery store can't give the customer. Yeah. And that's a connection to the production,  
**[1:10:42-1:11:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:10:42):**  to the land. It's trust. As I say, like I sell trust. And it's also if you go to the local  Walmart and buy a pack of beef and you cook it for your family. And I'm not saying this is  commonplace. Like we have fairly good safety standards in this country, but if you cook that  
**[1:11:01-1:11:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:11:01):**  beef and you get sick or whatever, y'all get food poisoning. Are you going to go back to Walmart  and say like, Hey, this beef made me sick. No, probably not. And if you did, they might give you  a, you know, Oh, here's 10% off your next purchase. Whereas like, I can tell you, like, if you,  
**[1:11:22-1:11:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:11:22):**  if that happened to me, if somebody ate my beef and it made them sick, they'd probably sue me for  everything I'm worth. But the chances like we're selling the trust of that shortened supply chain  to where now this beef hasn't changed hands six times and it's not mystery meat from you don't  
**[1:11:42-1:12:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:11:42):**  know where that has an undefinable value. And by that, I mean, it's going to vary from customer to  customer. Some people are willing to put a dollar premium on that. Some people are willing to put a  $5 premium on that. And some people don't care. And the don't cares are not your customer. And  
**[1:12:03-1:12:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:12:03):**  that's fine. But I have a lot of people locally that are city subsidized with other jobs. Farming  is not their profession. It's just something that they do that sell beef under my cost.  And it's funny to look at how much subsidy is because we always talk about subsidies  
**[1:12:27-1:12:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:12:27):**  and agriculture from a governmental perspective, right? But it's funny how much subsidy happens  because of the lifestyle that people are willing to do work for nothing or to lose money  to then turn around and subsidize the food side of things just because it's what they've always done  
**[1:12:52-1:13:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:12:52):**  or how they've always done it. And it's what people are willing to pay in their area.  There's a phrase that comes to mind that I heard from Dave Pratt from Branching for Profit School.  He always said, if you want to be a cowboy, go get a job.  
**[1:13:14-1:13:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:13:14):**  It's the truth. But the problem is those people, and I'm not saying it's necessarily a problem.  It's a good and bad thing because I'm all about local production and people know where their food  comes from, shaking the hand that feeds them. Whether that be someone, whether that's a  
**[1:13:35-1:13:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:13:35):**  shake in the hand that feeds them, whether that be somebody that does it full time or not,  it's just how that affects the actual market. Because when you have people, obviously if you  have a glut of supply, because you have a lot of people willing to produce something at a really  
**[1:13:54-1:14:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:13:54):**  cheap cost that doesn't actually factor in the real cost, then that sets the price standard.  Whereas the people like me and you over here, people that make their living in this industry  are held to a higher standard, or we have to be slaves to our operation. We have to work for free  
**[1:14:15-1:14:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:14:15):**  to make up that glut difference. Our lack of a wage is our subsidy because we don't have tab jobs.  You're talking about the city subsidized farmer, which I'll probably go ahead and use that for.  You're talking about just screwing up your local beef market. I want to take that a step further  
**[1:14:37-1:14:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:14:37):**  and say that those same folks that are raising five or 10 calves in their backyard that are  selling to the barn, that are selling their weaned calves to the barn, that's what all the  backgrounders are picking up and putting the pot load package together, send it somewhere a little  
**[1:14:56-1:15:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:14:56):**  farther west where there's a little more grain. That's what ends up in feedlots is quote high risk  is not to pick on Georgia, but you know, is a couple pot loads of cows, couple pot loads of  steers from 15 different little farms in Georgia that all went through the same barn that some  
**[1:15:15-1:15:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:15:15):**  buyer put together in a pot load. Yep. It happens. That's the thing. People that flirt with the  industry that aren't really in it don't understand is the cow calf side of things that how much of  the cow calf industry actually lives on the East coast and is radically decentralized. It's mom and  
**[1:15:38-1:16:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:15:38):**  pop, not full time, not a business. And it's creates an environment that creates cheap prices.  And that's just it. When I see prices of sale barns from Oklahoma West, especially the Dakotas,  places where Nebraska, places where people are in the business. Where there's actually a market.  
**[1:16:02-1:16:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:16:02):**  A market. Yeah. Well, not always, but if you can cost compare all day long and our prices  will always be radically cheaper. And obviously, there's fuel costs involved in terms of fuel  in terms of shipping those cattle list, blah, blah, blah, blah. But I think a lot of it has  
**[1:16:22-1:16:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:16:22):**  to do with the fact that people are willing to give away animals and just blame it on the all  shucks. Well, we'll get them next year because they're not in the business. They're price takers.  They're not price setters. They're city subsidized farmers. They're hobbyists. They have no idea what  
**[1:16:39-1:16:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:16:39):**  their input cost is. They have a town job. They don't care about your flavor because it's because,  well, I got the grass and I'd have to mow it if I didn't have them cows.  It costs me less to feed them cows all winter than it would cost me to mow the pasture.  
**[1:16:55-1:17:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:16:55):**  Correct.  Yeah. Thanks, asshole. You're just ruining the calf market for everybody else.  Correct. And so, it gets into me and you all always get to this. It's like, okay,  
**[1:17:06-1:17:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:17:06):**  what's the root? Well, the root of it, how do you fix the problem? It's easy to point out the  problem, but how do you fix it? Yeah. That's the fun part.  And I don't know that there is an easy fix other than education to the end consumer.  
**[1:17:22-1:17:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:17:22):**  Because like for instance, that customer I talked to today wanted to talk,  tell me the difference between this and WADU. If you're going to ask me that question,  I'm fine to answer it, but you might not be able to comprehend my answer because...  
**[1:17:38-1:17:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:17:38):**  And I'm not saying that to downplay anyone's intellect. It's just simply like,  there's a lot of nuance to this business. If I have to explain to you, first of all,  that you're the same person. If you're asking me what the difference in my beef and WADU is,  
**[1:17:59-1:18:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:17:59):**  you're the same person that sees certified Angus beef and you think that is better than the beef  that's sitting beside it. And that's not certified Angus. And I'm not downplaying certified Angus,  it's the greatest marketing that's ever been done on the history of the planet.  
**[1:18:16-1:18:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:18:16):**  Fabulous marketing campaign.  Yes. But ultimately, I always say I have a three-prong approach to my customer base. And  one is people that are health minded. Because like it or hate it, you probably have people that  
**[1:18:34-1:18:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:18:34):**  listen to this podcast that they all that grass fed stuff, crap, blah, blah, blah, whatever. I've  heard it all. At the end of the day, there are people that are willing to buy it. There are  people who are willing to buy it at a premium. Somebody has to produce it. And in my case,  
**[1:18:50-1:19:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:18:50):**  my goal is to produce it with the utmost integrity and no green washing. Because that's something  that happens constantly. And I don't know really anyone in this industry, this portion of the  industry that isn't deeply entrenched in covering up things. Whether it's, oh, they're grass fed,  
**[1:19:15-1:19:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:19:15):**  grass finished. If you go out there and actually meet them farmer to farmer, yeah, they get a  bucket of grain a day. But it's not really enough to matter to anything. It's less than a half a  percent of their body weight. And that's okay. But the guidelines that they can eat that much.  
**[1:19:31-1:19:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:19:31):**  And I'm like that, you know, that's fine. If that's your ethos, and you're okay with that,  and you can sleep at night. Just be honest about it. Yeah, I'm the person that just says,  this is the way that I'm raising the beef that my family wants to eat. That like the standards  
**[1:19:48-1:20:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:19:48):**  we hold ourselves to is the beef I produce for other people. And if you don't see that from a  health standpoint, then that means your valuation of my beef is going to be lower. So that's one.  Two is shaking the hand that feeds you. Is you have to be locally minded. You have to want to  
**[1:20:12-1:20:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:20:12):**  know where your food comes from and how it's produced. And so like, I'm building the trifecta  of my perfect customer because you can be heavy weighted on one end, and then have none of the  other spectrum. And you still won't want to buy my beef. Because what I do, I realize is hyper niche.  
**[1:20:37-1:20:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:20:37):**  Because I feel like I'm niche within the grass fed, grass finished world. But because there's  not many people out there that are doing it organically. And even if they are grass fed,  like I said, there's a lot of people that add some nuance flavor to what that actually means.  
**[1:20:57-1:21:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:20:57):**  That are doing so, like I try to be full spectrum. So whatever, not to say in any way that I'm better  than anyone else. Because if you run a feedlot, good for you, as long as you're profitable.  But at the same time, we have to know who our customers are. And the guy that's running  
**[1:21:15-1:21:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:21:15):**  a cow calf operation, let's say in, who cares, Texas. He has to know that his customer is not  the same as my customer. And that's okay. Because we both have a customer base. The guy that's  selling grain finished beef in Southeast Tennessee that is in competition with me, is not really even  
**[1:21:39-1:22:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:21:39):**  in competition with me. Because I have a cousin, one county over, who runs about the same  herb size as me. When I first started this, he was already in the business. His granddad got  him into it. And if you could draw a different mindset than mine, that's him. He's old school,  
**[1:22:04-1:22:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:22:04):**  grain finished, like cow calf, organics for freaking hippies, blah, blah, blah, blah. So  I tried to convince him from the start, not to do what I'm doing, but that he needed to be selling  beef. He was cow calf producing. He was raising his calves and selling them in lot loads,  
**[1:22:27-1:22:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:22:27):**  chasing that premium. And he was doing well. But I tried to tell him, dude, you got to get  into selling local beef. Ultimately, the most money to be made is in math. And he just started  selling beef like a month and a half ago. And so once again, when I first saw that,  
**[1:22:49-1:23:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:22:49):**  first of all, I don't really talk to him much anymore, but I was like, oh my God, he finally  started doing it. Wait, I have more competition now. And then I realized, I was like, not really.  But what I have found on the competition side of things is the Weston A. Price folks,  
**[1:23:10-1:23:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:23:10):**  it's like the Weston A. Price folks of the world, those are more the people that I choose to market  to, the people that are very awake, I guess you'll call it. I don't like to use the term  awake because that has political implications. Yeah, that's a four letter word on this podcast.  
**[1:23:30-1:23:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:23:30):**  Yeah, we don't like that. But people that are living wide awake that see things for what they  are, that want to drink raw milk, that want to know where their food comes from, they already  grasp that sphere of it. But even then, I don't even market to those people. I let them come to  
**[1:23:55-1:24:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:23:55):**  me via word of mouth. But it's incredible to me that even within those groups of people that you  consider to be awake, you still find tons of people that, oh, I buy my beef from such and such and  such and such. And I can't help myself. I see who that is. Look it up. And they're just a local grain  
**[1:24:18-1:24:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:24:18):**  finish beef operation. I'm like, wait, oh, okay. To each their own. But when you start selling,  coming on to those same platforms and marketing like, hey, we're selling half beef for $2 a pound.  At that point, I just pull up, I mean, this actually happened. This happened about two weeks  
**[1:24:44-1:25:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:24:44):**  ago. Somebody did that. And my response to that was simply to pull up the USDA grass fed report  and just post a picture of it where it says that the national average for a half  at carcass weight for grass-vanished beef is $9 a pound. Take that for what you will.  
**[1:25:07-1:25:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:25:07):**  I've gotten to the point now where I realized, I guess when I was young and dumb, I enjoyed it,  but now I just like online arguments are frivolous and stupid. So just here you go. Take that,  educate yourself and move on. I agree 100%. And I just, I try not to argue on social media. I  
**[1:25:23-1:25:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:25:23):**  just state my point, move on. Try not to do a whole lot of trolling.  So have you seen any changes in your customer base over the last year or so?  Yes and no. So it's funny. I had a customer last month send my wife an email. Don't know how in  
**[1:25:49-1:26:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:25:49):**  the world he got my wife's email. It's not listed anywhere. Now my wife is a real estate agent. So  I'm like, it gets listed, but not like not hard to find this. Yeah. But it's like not with the  business. So I'm like, whereas the business, I don't do actually that much marketing.  
**[1:26:12-1:26:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:26:12):**  I'm not buying Facebook ads. I'm not doing like your standard stuff. I'd like to get  into doing more marketing. I just don't have the time for it right now. So  I know many people would say I don't have the time not to. Just going to throw that out there  
**[1:26:27-1:26:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:26:27):**  before someone else says it. I wasn't going to say it. I wasn't going to take that one out.  But at the same time, I haven't really struggled. That's hard to fill orders, but I'm not swamped in  orders like I would like to be. Let's put it that way. I'm not going to be in a position to  
**[1:26:49-1:27:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:26:49):** affiliated orders like I would like to be. Let's put it that way. As far as my customer  base changing, I've seen more and more people reach out to me because they want to buy local.  I've had a flood of people. Hey, they start, start the email or the text or whatever,  
**[1:27:07-1:27:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:27:07):**  or the phone call. I've never done this before, but.  But that always excites me and terrifies me  because I'm either fixing to waste an hour of my time  
**[1:27:21-1:27:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:27:21):**  educating someone who still is gonna take away  everything I just said and go buy from the person  that's producing the $4 a pound beef.  
**[1:27:33-1:27:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:27:33):**  Or, yeah, and I thought,  or I'm going to have a customer for life.  It's really, I figured out that it's kind of one or the other  
**[1:27:45-1:27:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:27:45):**  and those are the people, obviously,  who wouldn't be interested in that,  but those are the people I'm truly chasing  
**[1:27:50-1:27:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:27:50):**  because I kind of look at it like this.  It's me and you've talked about this before.  You can kind of see the writing on the wall.  
**[1:27:56-1:28:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:27:56):**  If you go up to 40,000 feet and look at US agriculture  and the political climate and the geopolitical climate  and everything that's going on,  
**[1:28:04-1:28:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:28:04):**  like we are a mere breath away from the entirety  of our industry being turned on its head.  With that-  
**[1:28:17-1:28:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:28:17):**  I can't disagree.  Yeah, with that, I kind of look at it from a standpoint of,  I want the customers that when they call me  
**[1:28:26-1:28:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:28:26):**  because their freezer's getting kind of low  and you can't get beef at the grocery store  or it's four times what it is now,  
**[1:28:38-1:28:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:28:38):**  and you got to just take what you can get.  That day could be coming.  And that day, I mean, not to be all gloom and doom,  
**[1:28:46-1:28:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:28:46):**  but I think that day is coming.  Whether it come this year or whether it come next year  or the next year, I'm not putting a date on it.  
**[1:28:55-1:29:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:28:55):**  I'm just saying it's closer than what most people  want to look through their rose colored glasses and see.  I want to have the customer base that says that,  
**[1:29:04-1:29:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:29:04):**  like when they call me, I feel an emotional connection  to that person to help them  because I view them almost like family.  
**[1:29:14-1:29:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:29:14):**  So I guess you'd say like growing a customer base  that of like-mindedness and awareness  is kind of what I'm shooting for.  
**[1:29:23-1:29:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:29:23):**  And that may be like, you know,  trying to pull a rabbit out of a hat.  It might be a little bit of magic trick to amass  
**[1:29:31-1:29:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:29:31):**  enough people to make that financially viable.  I don't know if I'll ever fully get to that point.  You're still going to have to sell halves and wholes  
**[1:29:37-1:29:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:29:37):**  to the occasional, you know, fitness buff person  that just wants to try it or whatever, you know,  the one-offs.  
**[1:29:47-1:29:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:29:47):**  But I think it's vastly more important to build a network.  And that's why I started doing box beef sales again,  and I'm still just flirting with it,  
**[1:29:59-1:30:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:29:59):**  but trying to do subscription boxes.  And me and Hobbs have talked about this before,  and I kind of gave him my framework for how to do it.  
**[1:30:14-1:30:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:30:14):**  It is basically, instead of trying to sell halves and wholes,  which I prefer to do because it's just simpler,  is to, we're constantly getting in the beef side of things  
**[1:30:28-1:30:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:30:28):**  is people that either A, don't have the financial resources  to put that much money on the table at one time,  because it's a huge financial commitment,  
**[1:30:36-1:30:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:30:36):**  or B, lacked the freezer space  or the place to put said freezer.  Because a lot of our clientele is down  
**[1:30:46-1:30:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:30:46):**  in like the Metro Atlanta area, you know,  whether or not you actually don't have space for a freezer  is up to you.  
**[1:30:53-1:31:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:30:53):**  You might just be a pack rat, I don't know.  But ultimately that's why we're like, okay,  what can we do to then streamline this process  
**[1:31:01-1:31:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:31:01):**  to basically sell shares of a cow  without having to go through the process of like,  you get to select this, this, and this.  
**[1:31:11-1:31:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:31:11):**  The problem I have found with that  is there's not enough additional margin in doing that  to make up for the extra effort involved.  
**[1:31:23-1:31:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:31:23):**  The only thing that's beneficial to it  is from a scheduling standpoint,  let's just use a round number and say like,  
**[1:31:31-1:31:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:31:31):**  I had 10 processing dates.  You can have 10 processing dates  and have to find 10 whole beef customers,  
**[1:31:39-1:31:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:31:39):**  which to anybody that's done this,  that's not always simple to do.  Right.  
**[1:31:44-1:31:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:31:44):**  Yeah.  But if you have 800,000 followers on social media.  It doesn't matter.  
**[1:31:49-1:31:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:31:49):**  And I've told you this before,  TikTok is not a place to sell beef.  I still market it on there some,  
**[1:31:55-1:32:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:31:55):**  but I've only ever sold one half cow.  I think, no, I take it back.  I've sold one and a half cows to TikTok followers  
**[1:32:02-1:32:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:32:02):**  because by and large TikTok is shooting birdshot  at 300 yards.  Like you might get lucky one in a million, you know,  
**[1:32:12-1:32:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:32:12):**  but ultimately the viewership is not tailored to that.  And now TikTok has changed their algorithm even more  to where if you try to market a product,  
**[1:32:22-1:32:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:32:22):**  they drastically censor the viewership.  So anyway, back to the box beef thing.  Can you imagine why?  
**[1:32:30-1:32:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:32:30):**  Cause they probably wanted to drop their ad revenues up.  Who knew?  Yeah.  
**[1:32:36-1:32:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:32:36):**  But as far as doing like the box beef sales,  you know, I found that it's a lot of extra work,  not a lot of extra margin if any.  
**[1:32:43-1:32:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:32:43):**  And, but the good thing about it was,  is for me is to say that same,  trying to find those 10 whole beef customers.  
**[1:32:51-1:32:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:32:51):**  Well, let's say the box represents a eighth portion  of the cow.  Well, now I just,  
**[1:32:57-1:33:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:32:57):**  I need 80 people that can buy a 25 pound box of beef  on a monthly basis.  Yep.  
**[1:33:07-1:33:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:33:07):**  Or 160 customers that can do it on a bi-monthly basis  and staggering.  That's a lot.  
**[1:33:16-1:33:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:33:16):**  It sounds like, oh my God, there's so many more customers,  but it's a lot easier to convince somebody to buy  that small amount than it is.  
**[1:33:24-1:33:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:33:24):**  And with the freezer space they currently own,  then hey, go out and buy a freezer  and then go buy this beef, you know,  
**[1:33:31-1:33:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:33:31):**  and spend all this money.  Especially when most of those people,  the first thing out of their mouth is,  
**[1:33:36-1:33:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:33:36):**  what can I try it first before I commit to it?  And I'm like-  He's out there walking around.  
**[1:33:42-1:33:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:33:42):**  Yeah.  It's like, I, you know,  I've already committed to killing this animal.  
**[1:33:47-1:34:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:33:47):**  So kind of hard to let you taste him while he might taste  a little weird still on the hook.  But that's one of those things where when we got into that,  
**[1:34:00-1:34:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:34:00):**  like, and I'm just kind of weighing out to you,  the pros and the cons of it is you kind of figure out A,  you're never gonna outperform and like put your box.  
**[1:34:10-1:34:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:34:10):**  Right.  That's your competition.  And they have, they own that market  
**[1:34:14-1:34:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:34:14):**  and their prices are gonna be lower than yours  because they have the volume.  I personally never could figure out  
**[1:34:20-1:34:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:34:20):**  how to actually ship the beef  without A, either spending like my left arm  or B, having to be drastically concerned about the beef  
**[1:34:31-1:34:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:34:31):**  because when it's 105 degrees outside  and that box is getting shipped, you know,  UPS ground or whatever in a unconditioned hot box  
**[1:34:42-1:34:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:34:42):**  that's 130 degrees on the inside.  Hey, UPS trucks have never had air conditioning.  And I'm sure that was a condition of taking that job  
**[1:34:51-1:34:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:34:51):**  is they knew the fucking truck  didn't have air conditioning.  Oh, absolutely.  
**[1:34:55-1:35:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:34:55):**  I'm not getting in on that.  Like, you know, if you want to be a UPS driver,  those people are union and they get paid really well.  
**[1:35:01-1:35:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:35:01):**  Suck it up.  You can come out and work cows with me  if you really think everything is so bad.  
**[1:35:09-1:35:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:35:09):**  Yeah, if you think it's bad in the UPS truck,  go get in an engine room of a Navy destroyer  in June in person golf.  
**[1:35:18-1:35:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:35:18):**  140 in the ventilation feels like a nice vacation.  And you're in there for how long, Rod?  When it got, there was a point  
**[1:35:28-1:35:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:35:28):**  where it was too hot in the engine room.  And they had to cut our watches down to two hours  for heat stress.  
**[1:35:35-1:35:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:35:35):**  Like that's two hours out of 10  is how you could be down there.  Two hours.  
**[1:35:40-1:35:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:35:40):**  And that's when it got real, real bad.  Two hours.  How long do you think a UPS driver gets in that truck for?  
**[1:35:47-1:35:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:35:47):**  In a one period piece of time?  Two minutes?  Yeah, and I don't know.  
**[1:35:53-1:36:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:35:53):**  I mean, it's different than where I am  because you know, it's miles and miles and miles.  Sometimes I think the guy like sometimes goes an hour  
**[1:36:01-1:36:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:36:01):**  in between deliveries depending on what he's having.  No, I'm not talking about in the cab.  I'm talking about in the back.  
**[1:36:06-1:36:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:36:06):**  Yeah.  Because that's where they're taking the measurements.  It's not up in the cab where the doors open  
**[1:36:11-1:36:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:36:11):**  and they're blistering down the road and get, you know,  like it's, but anyway, let's not talk about UPS.  Let's not chase that rabbit, exactly.  
**[1:36:22-1:36:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:36:22):**  Let's talk about rabbits.  Let's talk about your rabbits.  Okay, so another little venture I've been down lately.  
**[1:36:35-1:36:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:36:35):**  I got two does and a immature, but they're mutt rabbits,  but they're mostly silver Fox and champagne.  They are meat rabbits.  
**[1:36:47-1:36:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:36:47):**  And that was just kind of like one of those things  I've been flirting with for a long while.  And are you getting into the seed stock meat rabbit business?  
**[1:36:55-1:37:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:36:55):**  Yeah, you know it.  That has a nice ring to it.  Well, I think ultimately, and you'd be surprised.  
**[1:37:02-1:37:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:37:02):**  I think there's money probably in like it isn't  in any industry.  I think there's probably money to be made there.  
**[1:37:08-1:37:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:37:08):**  I actually have one of my beef clients who's already  like on me to like, he wants to buy rabbit from me.  And I'm like, ah, you know, I don't really know  
**[1:37:16-1:37:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:37:16):**  if I want to do this on a commercial basis.  I kind of did it just so I could produce meat for my family  cause I really like rabbit and you know,  
**[1:37:27-1:37:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:37:27):**  the reason I got into it is A, I saw the, you know,  what was going on in Ukraine,  what was happening to grain prices here,  
**[1:37:34-1:37:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:37:34):**  like in the US like, okay,  grain's going to get way more expensive  before they decided to dump glut everything.  
**[1:37:41-1:37:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:37:41):**  And I was like, you know, raising meat birds  is intensive in grain.  And I was like, that's going to get more and more expensive.  
**[1:37:50-1:38:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:37:50):**  It's a huge risk where it's not really replicable  because meat chickens, ultimately, you know,  I have to call Murray McMurray or, you know,  
**[1:38:01-1:38:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:38:01):**  crackle or something.  I have to call a hatchery,  order those birds and have them shipped to me.  
**[1:38:06-1:38:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:38:06):**  You know, whereas rabbits produce virtually,  not exactly the same, but virtually the same product  and they can do it.  
**[1:38:15-1:38:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:38:15):**  I'm not saying it's as efficient,  but they can do it all on grass.  So for me, I mean, call it survivalism,  
**[1:38:25-1:38:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:38:25):**  call it whatever you want.  Like part of it was just a hobby for fun  and just to try something.  
**[1:38:31-1:38:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:38:31):**  But I honestly have had them now for,  I'd say it's been at least a month  and I regret not getting them sooner.  
**[1:38:40-1:38:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:38:40):**  I have enjoyed having them.  I don't keep them in pens like traditionally is done.  They're not just in cages.  
**[1:38:49-1:38:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:38:49):**  I keep them in the barn in a stall  that I put chicken wire around  and they call that in the rabbit world, that's colony.  
**[1:38:56-1:39:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:38:56):**  That's a rabbit colony.  When you allow your rabbits to actually live like rabbits,  you know, they can run around, jump, burrow,  
**[1:39:03-1:39:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:39:03):**  do all the things that rabbits do.  And they're fun animals.  Like, you know, I can go in there  
**[1:39:10-1:39:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:39:10):**  and they don't necessarily wanna be held,  but if you go in there and just squat down  and sit for a second,  
**[1:39:16-1:39:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:39:16):**  like they come up and they're sniffing you,  kind of like cows will do.  You know, if you go out and just sit in the cow pasture,  
**[1:39:20-1:39:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:39:20):**  your cows will get curious, come sniff you.  So it's been really a good thing  and it's really not expensive to get into.  
**[1:39:30-1:39:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:39:30):**  So, you know, I'm not gonna tell you  you need to get rabbits, Brian,  but I think you should probably try to get some rabbits.  
**[1:39:35-1:39:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:39:35):**  It'd be a worthwhile endeavor.  You might enjoy it, who knows?  Well, there's nobody around me doing rabbits.  
**[1:39:42-1:39:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:39:42):**  So I mean, that could work.  Well, my thing is, I said, you know,  if you were gonna have something that's quickly scalable,  
**[1:39:50-1:40:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:39:50):**  that there are three businesses you can get into  in livestock that scale very quickly.  And that's sheep, or I'll just say small ruminants,  
**[1:40:02-1:40:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:40:02):**  but definitely sheep, because I don't screw with goats,  sheep, pigs, and rabbits.  And one of which is literally known  
**[1:40:13-1:40:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:40:13):**  for breeding like rabbits.  There's a reason they say that.  There is a reason.  
**[1:40:18-1:40:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:40:18):**  And so now I have no experience with it.  I've never dealt with it.  I'm going to, but-  
**[1:40:24-1:40:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:40:24):**  You're about two in about two months.  Yeah, exactly.  But I do feel like, okay,  
**[1:40:30-1:40:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:40:30):**  I'm going to build a couple rabbit tractors  for my grow-out pens, and I'm going to move them,  much in the same way people do chickens.  
**[1:40:38-1:40:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:40:38):**  And Joel Salatin's son, Daniel,  has done this for many, many, many years,  with good success.  
**[1:40:47-1:40:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:40:47):**  And I don't know that there's necessarily a way  in which I could sell that rabbit,  but I'm not going to say there's not.  
**[1:40:56-1:41:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:40:56):**  Because like I said, there's a market  and a way to make money with it, just about anything.  And I think-  
**[1:41:00-1:41:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:00):**  I know you would, by the time you have rabbits to sell,  you'll have it figured out.  I'll have some, well, or I'll be figuring it out.  
**[1:41:07-1:41:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:07):**  But I'm definitely-  I see you on TikTok selling rabbit hats  and lucky rabbit feet.  
**[1:41:13-1:41:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:13):**  Just whatever, just anything I can do  to value add those bad boys.  I think ultimately the rabbit though is,  
**[1:41:21-1:41:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:21):**  I forgot to mention this, is processing.  So comparing rabbits to chickens,  processing chickens is a pain.  
**[1:41:28-1:41:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:28):**  I've done it plenty of times.  Like it's-  There's a lot of feathers.  
**[1:41:32-1:41:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:32):**  Well, it takes infrastructure  to do chicken processing on almost any scale.  Like-  
**[1:41:41-1:41:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:41):**  A rabbit is probably faster per pound.  Probably a lot faster per pound.  A rabbit is quick, man.  
**[1:41:49-1:41:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:49):**  And all you need is a knife.  And not even a big one.  No, I mean, you can have a rabbit skinned out, gutted,  
**[1:41:57-1:42:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:41:57):**  you know, in the chill tank in probably-  Like somebody that's skilled with it.  I mean, I've seen people do it on video  
**[1:42:04-1:42:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:04):**  in like less than 30 seconds.  I was gonna say for like five minutes,  if you're like really dumb and slow like me.  
**[1:42:13-1:42:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:13):**  Yeah, yeah.  Like me, you know, just introductory,  like, huh, you know, rudimentary,  
**[1:42:18-1:42:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:18):**  getting out there and doing it.  But it's real fast.  And it's real easy in terms of the levels of nuance.  
**[1:42:27-1:42:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:27):**  Whereas chickens, you know,  you gotta dunk those things, scald them.  If you don't scald them enough,  
**[1:42:32-1:42:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:32):**  the feathers don't come off.  You scald them too much.  And you start like, there's just a lot of nuance to that  
**[1:42:37-1:42:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:37):**  where I know I'm not saying it's bad.  I've done it and I like it.  But I think ultimately rabbits are just, they feel it.  
**[1:42:45-1:42:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:45):**  We used to eat way more rabbit in this country  than we do now.  And I think part of that is just the commercialization  
**[1:42:52-1:42:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:52):**  of cheap chicken.  Yeah, that's probably true.  Well, and rabbits are cute.  
**[1:42:58-1:43:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:42:58):**  Well, there is that.  I mean, but some would argue chickens are cute  when they're in a chicken truck hauling down the road.  
**[1:43:05-1:43:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:43:05):**  And then it becomes like a,  in the arms of the angels.  You know, where it's like a, you know,  
**[1:43:13-1:43:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:43:13):**  a PETA commercial or something.  But I think, you know, a Cornish cross bird  is painlessly ugly, but they're brutally efficient  
**[1:43:20-1:43:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:43:20):**  at what they were bred to do.  But the problem is they don't self replicate very well.  Like we don't have chickens.  
**[1:43:31-1:43:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:43:31):**  We don't have a chicken population that is okay  being a meat bird, can raise their own replacements  and still give you reliable eggs.  
**[1:43:40-1:43:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:43:40):**  Like we don't have that chicken.  Doesn't exist.  And that's the thing is for me with the rabbits  
**[1:43:47-1:44:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:43:47):**  is if you're chasing down a easy, super easy to keep,  super like hands off, simple way to start, you know,  stirring up your meat supply, because let's be honest,  
**[1:44:02-1:44:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:44:02):**  most of the people who listen to this podcast  are probably in some facet of cattle production.  Well, you know what my number one market is?  
**[1:44:11-1:44:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:44:11):**  What's that?  Houston.  Oh, oilers that want to be cattle one.  
**[1:44:18-1:44:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:44:18):**  My number two market is Dallas  and my number three market is Kansas city.  Okay.  
**[1:44:25-1:44:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:44:25):**  So back yard meat rabbits might be a good idea.  Might be a thing.  I say that about, you know, like you bought a bunch  
**[1:44:33-1:44:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:44:33):**  of wannabes, but once again, there are a lot of cattlemen  in those areas because like the DFW statistical area,  although has been laid waste to by suburban sprawl,  
**[1:44:46-1:44:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:44:46):**  just ask Richard, you know, there still are  on the outskirts of that.  There's a lot of actual real cattlemen  
**[1:44:53-1:44:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:44:53):**  that are still doing their thing.  Oh, and I get that.  Those are the guys that I all hear from.  
**[1:44:58-1:45:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:44:58):**  They're the ones that write in.  They're the ones that are on Patreon.  They're the ones that are always sending me messages.  
**[1:45:02-1:45:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:45:02):**  I hear from those guys.  Yeah.  Well, I think that's interesting though.  
**[1:45:08-1:45:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:45:08):**  That like, so Houston, I'm not as familiar with Houston.  It's in Texas.  Thank you, Brian.  
**[1:45:15-1:45:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:45:15):**  Wow.  I've been schooled on geopolitics today.  Home to the Astros.  
**[1:45:23-1:45:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:45:23):**  So anyway, I think ultimately meat rabbits  is a great compliment to cattle production  because at least for me,  
**[1:45:32-1:45:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:45:32):**  because I found that it's super easy.  Like in terms of it's fairly hands-off, you know,  you make sure the rabbits have some feed,  
**[1:45:39-1:45:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:45:39):**  have a little alfalfa or,  and their water bottles stays full  and that takes like two minutes and it's done and that's it.  
**[1:45:47-1:45:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:45:47):**  And they self replicate, you know,  and if I go to the extent of raising out rabbits  in a chicken tractor or a rabbit tractor,  
**[1:45:56-1:46:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:45:56):**  whatever you want to call it, like, you know,  moving that I can keep it in my yard  and they're going to fertilize my yard and mow my grass.  
**[1:46:05-1:46:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:46:05):**  And I mean, to me, I see it as a very simple thing  because yeah, I'm kind of talking gloom and doom  or whatever, but like, God forbid,  
**[1:46:15-1:46:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:46:15):**  everything goes to crap in a hand basket  like it did during the lockdowns.  Like ultimately if you have a freezer full of beef,  
**[1:46:24-1:46:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:46:24):**  no matter how good your beef is,  you're going to kind of get tired of just eating beef.  And that's kind of the thought process I came to.  
**[1:46:33-1:46:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:46:33):**  It's like, okay, well, whatever.  I just say like, some variety is always fun.  So I was just like, you know, that,  
**[1:46:45-1:46:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:46:45):**  and I'm telling you what got me going down this thought path  of this experiment is like, you know,  I'd like to have some other food supply  
**[1:46:52-1:47:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:46:52):**  that was just as secure as my low input  grass finished beef is, you know,  like I know that I can keep that operation going  
**[1:47:02-1:47:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:47:02):**  to some capacity with zero input if I had to.  Whereas with chicken-  You gotta have grain.  
**[1:47:12-1:47:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:47:12):**  You gotta have grain with pork.  You gotta have grain.  Lamb I could also do, and I'm actually gonna, God forbid,  
**[1:47:18-1:47:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:47:18):**  God help me, I'm gonna get a couple more sheep this fall,  but I'm actually getting them for root.  Cause I want, yeah.  
**[1:47:28-1:47:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:47:28):**  Well, and I miss my own lamb.  I'm not gonna lie to you.  I bought some at the store the other day  
**[1:47:33-1:47:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:47:33):**  and it was imported grass finished lamb from New Zealand  and it had zero flavor unlike my lamb.  And so I was like, you know what, screw this.  
**[1:47:43-1:47:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:47:43):**  I'm just going back, just get a few  and be able to produce my own.  Cause we love to eat lamb.  
**[1:47:49-1:47:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:47:49):**  Just get a few.  In fact, yeah.  And then it's like rabbits.  
**[1:47:53-1:48:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:47:53):**  Just get a few.  You know, I started, when I started,  my original flock was 38.  
**[1:48:02-1:48:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:02):**  And when I sold them a year and a half later,  there was over 200.  So just saying, it happens.  
**[1:48:13-1:48:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:13):**  But ultimately I think rabbits are something  that more people should screw around with.  Cause I think there's a lot of people,  
**[1:48:23-1:48:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:23):**  especially in that the homesteader community  or even in ranching, like people,  there's a lot of people that are raising their own chickens.  
**[1:48:32-1:48:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:32):**  And I think for most people,  they'd be better off raising rabbits.  Take that for what you do.  
**[1:48:39-1:48:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:39):**  I make a strong case.  And my wife will probably listen to this  and then come tell me that we're getting rabbits  
**[1:48:44-1:48:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:44):**  and ask her to build a rabbit tractor.  Thanks, Jerk.  Well, I mean, hey,  
**[1:48:47-1:48:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:47):**  I'm happy to give you a little extra honeydew.  That's right.  I appreciate that.  
**[1:48:53-1:48:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:53):**  More than you-  So I wanna know what else is on your list  or have we covered everything?  
**[1:48:58-1:49:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:48:58):**  Cause I feel like if we run out of your list,  you're gonna start talking politics to me.  And that's a dangerous one.  
**[1:49:04-1:49:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:04):**  Oh no, that's not this one.  Not today.  We'll get into that someday.  
**[1:49:07-1:49:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:07):**  That's a couple episodes down the line.  I was gonna say that maybe something  we never make a podcast about.  
**[1:49:14-1:49:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:14):**  That might be a little too radical.  Maybe not you and I,  but I bet there's somebody else  
**[1:49:18-1:49:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:18):**  that you follow on social media  that I've got a podcast schedule with.  Eskimo libertarian from Alaska.  
**[1:49:26-1:49:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:26):**  Okay.  Actually I don't follow them.  Her.  
**[1:49:30-1:49:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:30):**  Her, okay.  There you go.  I don't follow.  
**[1:49:33-1:49:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:33):**  So that should be coming up in about three weeks  at recording time.  Her interview is actually scheduled  
**[1:49:38-1:49:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:38):**  for eight days from today,  but it'll come out in about three weeks  from the time you guys are hearing us.  
**[1:49:44-1:49:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:44):**  If something didn't screw up in the recording schedule  and I don't remember to come edit this out.  Yeah.  
**[1:49:51-1:49:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:51):**  Yeah, we're gonna talk about,  we're gonna get into libertarianism.  Like I'm gonna go ahead and I'm gonna commit to that.  
**[1:49:57-1:50:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:49:57):**  I'm gonna commit to getting into  getting a little political in the podcast.  Well, then you can keep me up on that.  
**[1:50:03-1:50:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:03):**  I think she's gonna be a great one to do it with  because she's native Alaskan.  We can talk about resilience,  
**[1:50:09-1:50:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:09):**  community food systems from the perspective  of a native Alaskan.  And we can talk about libertarianism a little bit  
**[1:50:16-1:50:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:16):**  and what that means.  That's awesome.  And what that means for everybody.  
**[1:50:20-1:50:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:20):**  I have, I just have a couple other things on my list.  Cool.  Social links in the show notes.  
**[1:50:26-1:50:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:26):**  Anywhere else you want me to send traffic?  I really don't have that much social stuff.  You know, just a TikTok, Instagram, Facebook  
**[1:50:37-1:50:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:37):**  and my website, reverentwildranch.com  or we're just at reverentwildranch on all socials.  Yeah.  
**[1:50:46-1:50:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:46):**  Good branding.  I like it.  So keep it simple.  
**[1:50:49-1:50:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:49):**  Yep.  I guess really the only thing I have  and then I'll let you go is,  
**[1:50:53-1:51:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:50:53):**  what did you do to the Guidestones?  I literally told my wife before I came  to get on the computer.  
**[1:51:00-1:51:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:51:00):**  I was like, he's gonna bring up the Guidestones.  I can feel it.  I know it.  
**[1:51:04-1:51:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:51:04):**  I was like, God.  You know, the IRS just hired 87,000 new agents  and the FBI just raided Donald Trump's estate.  
**[1:51:16-1:51:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:51:16):**  So like with all that being said,  the federal government is for sure listening  to this podcast at this point  
**[1:51:22-1:51:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:51:22):**  because their AI has picked up on this.  Yeah.  I didn't do anything to the Georgia Guidestones  
**[1:51:27-1:51:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:51:27):**  but I applaud the man that did.  Fair enough.  I really say this.  
**[1:51:35-1:51:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:51:35):**  I think it was probably a drunken 4th of July,  living on a prayer, living on a dare, who knows?  But at the end of the day,  
**[1:51:46-1:51:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:51:46):**  what I'm interested to see is do they go back up or not?  Ooh, that is a good question.  That's a good question.  
**[1:51:55-1:52:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:51:55):**  I mean, my thought is no, but I'm not writing anything out.  Who knows at this point?  Well, I guess we'll just have to wait and see.  
**[1:52:06-1:52:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:52:06):**  And I think with that,  we'll let y'all go ahead and get on with your week,  including all the FBI, ATF, NSA, and CIA  
**[1:52:14-1:52:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:52:14):**  that's listening to this now.  So you guys enjoy your week too.  Yeah.  
**[1:52:19-1:52:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/79-Michael-Kinsey-I-dont-sell-beef--I-sell-trust-e1n1skg#t=1:52:19):**  Y'all have fun boys.  