---
title: 80 Macauley Kincaid The Frog Donkey Horn
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2022-09-05)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:00:00):**  Well hello and welcome back for another episode of Ranching Reboot. This episode of the podcast  has been sponsored by C90 Ocean Minerals, nature's most complete trace mineral salt,  and the one I feed to my herd. Support for this episode also provided by our generous patrons  
**[0:00:13-0:00:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:00:13):**  over on patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher. If you'd like to support the show and  allow me to continue to produce weekly podcasts head on over to patreon.com forward slash red  hills rancher. Click the link on the show notes or follow the link on red hills rancher.com.  
**[0:00:28-0:00:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:00:28):**  All right, gotta pay some bills. If you haven't heard about Anchor by Spotify,  it's the easiest way to make a podcast with everything you need all in one place. Let me  explain. Anchor has all the tools that allow you to record and edit your podcast right from your  
**[0:00:42-0:00:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:00:42):**  phone or your computer. When hosting on Anchor, you can distribute your podcast on listening  platforms such as Spotify, Apple podcast, Google, and more. And it's super easy. It's everything  you need to make a podcast in one place. And best of all, Anchor is totally free. Download the  
**[0:00:57-0:01:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:00:57):**  Anchor app or go to anchor.fm to get started today. This week's guest is my good friend  Macaulay Kincaid coming in from southwest Missouri. Today we're going to talk about the power of  positive feedback. Macaulay's going to explain some of the reasons why the corn this year is  
**[0:01:12-0:01:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:01:12):**  probably so poor. Some lessons from failures this year. How to turn cash crops into cover crops with  cattle. We're going to talk about how you measure biomass and figure out some grazing math. And  we're going to talk about Mac tries to describe a noise that he heard. And for the second week in  
**[0:01:26-0:01:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:01:26):**  a row, somebody gets a shout out. So here we go. Episode number 80 with Macaulay Kincaid.  He can do an intro. I will do that intro later. So Macaulay Kincaid, veteran of the Ranching  reboot podcast. In fact, we were just talking before the show a few minutes ago that Macaulay  
**[0:01:59-0:02:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:01:59):**  was episode three. And if I've done my job on the release schedule, everything's already recorded  now. I didn't plan this. So two weeks ago we had the special with Hobbs and Torrey. He was episode  one, our first guest. And then last week should have been Michael Kinsey who was episode number  
**[0:02:19-0:02:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:02:19):**  two. And now we're here with Macaulay Kincaid, episode number three. And let's just say that I  don't have any plans for Mike Calacrete next week. Sorry to burst any bubbles. There'll be something  new coming next week. So Mac, how you been buddy? Dude, I've been on a roller coaster here the last  
**[0:02:39-0:02:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:02:39):**  18 months. You said it's been 18 months since I last on here. It's been a lot of ups and downs.  Yesterday was definitely down. We lost someone in our community that meant a lot to my wife and I.  You know, man, Mark Lester, soul rest in peace, buddy. He was a good one. He died yesterday in  
**[0:02:55-0:03:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:02:55):**  a straight truck accident. Good farmer, good friend of mine. He actually sowed my very first  cover crop for me back when I didn't have any equipment. So guy did a lot to me. And like I  said, a lot of ups and downs this year. But, you know, there's been some positives too out  
**[0:03:10-0:03:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:03:10):**  there, you know, on this farm. But last 24 hours been weighing pretty heavy on my wife and I's  hearts. And I'm just so thankful to be able to do this and kind of bring my energy back up because  I kind of been down a little bit of a down mood last 24 hours. But this kind of got me excited.  
**[0:03:23-0:03:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:03:23):**  So that's good. Okay. From what I know of you, Mac, you're a hard guy to get down.  You're always smiling. You're always full of energy. That's one of the things I love about you.  I appreciate that, man. Like I said, you know, you just got to stay positive. You know,  
**[0:03:40-0:03:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:03:40):**  I I kind of trying to sound my surround myself with off from this people, you know,  and you're one of those, you know, every time we talk, you know, it's normally about an opinion  or an idea that you and I have and we bounce ideas off each other. And I just like to surround myself  
**[0:03:54-0:04:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:03:54):**  with positive people. You know, that's why my group of friends, I don't know if you've ever  been around Ray Archuleta or not, but that dude's energy is unmatched. I mean, it is insane how much  energy that guy can flow. I can't even tell you how many times somebody said Ray Archuleta.  
**[0:04:08-0:04:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:04:08):**  I've looked at his name on a pad that says, get these people on the podcast. And every time  somebody says his name, it makes a little tally mark and about run out of room, make tally marks  next to Ray's name. I need to just go ahead and do it. But it seemed like a couple of months ago,  
**[0:04:24-0:04:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:04:24):**  I was at a point where I was kind of struggling to find guests and are struggling to make connections.  And then one day everything just kind of clicked and now I'm scheduled pretty far out.  I'll take it. I'll take it. And so sometimes when you're talking to somebody, it's kind of difficult.  
**[0:04:43-0:05:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:04:43):**  It's like, yeah, hey, let's do a podcast. Well, when are you available? I don't really have any  recording slots until like mid-October right now. And they're kind of like, maybe I can't put that  on my schedule quite yet. So I've run into that. And it's learning how far out to schedule is  
**[0:05:00-0:05:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:05:00):**  a challenge. Yeah, for sure. Oh, you there? Yep. We're here. Sorry about that. I lost you just for  a second. No, I mean, if you ever need to raise contact, man, just let me know. And I can definitely  get that for you, Ray. You know, we only live about 60 miles away from each other. So, you know,  
**[0:05:20-0:05:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:05:20):**  me and that guy, I have learned so much off of him and we have bounced ideas off of each other.  And he, every time I'm with him, he teaches me something new. And the way Ray can look at a soil  and describe how he sees that soil. It's one of, it's like an art, man. It's like one of the most  
**[0:05:40-0:05:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:05:40):**  beautiful things you've ever seen. I mean, you know, he'll be like, look at the dystridosphere  and look at the aggregation that we have going on here and the rooting zones. And you know that  the little male is forming through the mycorrhizae because of look at this top, you know, four inches  
**[0:05:52-0:06:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:05:52):**  of soil and how aggregate it is. And I sent you that picture earlier of my soil, my longest running  no-till cover crop soil with cattle on it. And that soil, we've been dry, you know, we cut off  about June 3rd. We've been fairly dry from my area. And so, you know, there's no moisture in the top  
**[0:06:07-0:06:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:06:07):**  part of the inches, but we still have good structure and we have a lot of root structure  inside that. And that's one row crop. I look at my pastures and I cannot believe the resilience  that my pasture, you know, is sustaining with how dry we've been. It's incredible. But like I said,  
**[0:06:23-0:06:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:06:23):**  you know, Ray just has this beautiful art of describing things. And he was at my field day  this year with Doug Peterson. And, you know, crazy thing, really crappy deal actually.  We, about a week before my field day, we had, I think, 10 inches of rain. And so, you know,  
**[0:06:42-0:07:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:06:42):**  I live next to the river. And so my field day was lakefront property. I literally had water 10 feet  from my house and my pastures underwater. So you want to talk about stress? Yeah, I was a little  stressed out. And Doug and Ray, we went around the row crop fields and we were gonna spend more time  
**[0:07:00-0:07:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:07:00):**  with the pasture. But of course, you know, Mother Nature had other plans. And we spent a lot of time  in the row crop fields. And after it was over, you know, Doug told me and maybe he was just tooting  his horn. He said, you know, Mac, for as stressed as you were, that was one of the best field days  
**[0:07:14-0:07:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:07:14):**  I've ever been a part of. And that meant so much to me hearing that from Doug Peterson, because I  looked up to that guy, you know, just like I do, Ray, I mean, those guys are the top, top tier list,  you know, in my opinion, of people out there. And, you know, I think, maybe next year, I can have  
**[0:07:30-0:07:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:07:30):**  Brian Alexander, I'll have to talk to him, I don't know, I'll see what I can do. Maybe he can come  out to the field then next year. That guy didn't know anything. A bologna. Probably know more than  me, man. You farm where it's hard, or ranch where it's hard, my farm where it's easier, everybody says.  
**[0:07:52-0:08:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:07:52):**  Every place has its challenges. And places where it rains a lot more consistently  have less challenges. Yeah, I don't even want to tell everybody how much rain we've already  had this year, because it's like, you're not in a drought. But you are in a drought.  
**[0:08:12-0:08:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:08:12):**  It's really bad where you're at. Yeah, yeah, it's not great, you know, but I will say,  CK, that we're pretty blessed that, you know, we, I'm still grazing cows. My wife and I,  I didn't feed two bales of hay, we went to St. Louis last week. And so I gave him two bales.  
**[0:08:30-0:08:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:08:30):**  And, you know, last last winter, we fed three bales of hay, that's all we fed to all of our cows.  And we just keep them grazing, you know, we're far enough south, you know, the only thing that  can stop us from grazing, it seems like is ice. And there's a lot of planning that goes involved  
**[0:08:43-0:08:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:08:43):**  with that system. And it just it seems to work out pretty good. My cows can graze through snow,  they might be southern mama cows, but they can do it just like the deer do it. And they seem to,  they should show me that every year, every year we have, you know, that week or two of snow,  
**[0:08:57-0:09:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:08:57):**  and it just works out and they just dig through but it's a it's it's, you know, this system is so  easy. Everybody, you know, every field I have or every person I talk to, it blows my mind at how  much feed and hay and mineral that that ranchers and farmers put out there. You know, I was on a  
**[0:09:16-0:09:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:09:16):**  conversation today with a guy from Texas and I told him, you know, I haven't fed mineral in  about three years now. He said, Well, you know, do you have any calves to sell? I said, Well,  yeah, not to my own horn, but last year, we actually cabbed 100%. So every mama cow on the  
**[0:09:31-0:09:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:09:31):**  farm had a calf that was alive. And so I'm not that's not gonna happen every year that already  hasn't happened this year. But I don't think that the system is really all that complicated. I mean,  it's really easy to judge. It's really easy, you know, to measure biomass. And like times like  
**[0:09:48-0:10:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:09:48):**  this, like I take off 7% every month of dry matter, because I know that we're losing moisture,  the grasshoppers are desiccating crops, the deer is still grazing. So I just take off 7% every  month. And if it stopped raining now and didn't rain until next May, I'd have enough forage for  
**[0:10:03-0:10:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:10:03):**  all my cows until next May. Well, and  Mac, hold up, man, like, sometimes you just got to pause or take a breath. But  so you talked about measuring your biomass. And that's a question I get it get a lot. And  
**[0:10:16-0:10:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:10:16):**  I'm going to try to make some content real soon about, you know, how, how I measure grass and  the different methods I use to measure grass. But what are you talking about when you're talking  about measuring biomass and then lead back into, you know, the percent losses due to dry down and  
**[0:10:33-0:10:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:10:33):**  insects? Yeah, so I mean, you know, as well as I do, so I guess I'll get in that second question  first, the most part because it's one that's a little bit more complicated. So during dry  spells, you know, it seems like the grasshoppers really take off in our area. And that maybe that  
**[0:10:47-0:11:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:10:47):**  might be everyone's context throughout the country. But personally speaking, every time  it's dry throughout my lifetime, the grasshoppers come on hard. And so, you know, how I kind of come  up with that, that that 7% loss, you know, you figure in, you know, if a plant on average,  
**[0:11:03-0:11:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:11:03):**  you know, is is around, you know, let's say 10%, you know, water throughout the plant.  And, you know, every month, you know, I, you know, I've talked to Gabe, and he's been sometimes  almost a year without much rain, and he can still graze. And, you know, it's that, that,  
**[0:11:19-0:11:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:11:19):**  that water percentage comes down. So you have to figure that in. And how I originally come up with  that 7% was really this this simple, it sounds kind of dumb, but I looked at how much in 2000.  In 2012, I was looking at, I had some pasture back then, I don't have that ground anymore. But  
**[0:11:35-0:11:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:11:35):**  I looking at how much the grasshoppers eating on, on, on a paddocks, what I call paddocks back  then, it was just like, every 30 days, I'd move to a different area. But let's just say paddocks for  the sake of this. And I looked at the plant, it was a lot of the broad leads, it looks like they  
**[0:11:49-0:12:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:11:49):**  took off, you know, about 5% of the plant, you know, and it seemed like, you know, because I was  on a 30 day rotation back then pretty black and white, I didn't know what I was doing. I was dumb,  I was young, you know, and it seemed like they were taking off about that much the plant. And so,  
**[0:12:04-0:12:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:12:04):**  you know, I figured 2% loss in which the 5% for the insects and that's where we come up with. Now  to answer your first question on biomass, there's a lot of ways to check biomass, you can take a  yardstick out there, if you're talking perennial grasses that are short, like what we have Fescue,  
**[0:12:18-0:12:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:12:18):**  stick it in there. And if you you know, go to where you feel like it's the average on that  place that those animals are grazing. And are getting ready to graze, I should say go out there  with the yardstick measure up your most dominant plants out there, your top three, you know, let's  
**[0:12:32-0:12:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:12:32):**  say it's Fescue, Orchardgrass and Red Clover, okay, take the average of those three, let's say  that you're going to take off, hopefully, depending on what time of the year it is, if it's spring,  approximately about a quarter to a third of the plant. So figure that as much a biomass  
**[0:12:46-0:12:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:12:46):**  you're going to take off. And if you're talking summer, you know, we're gonna take off by about  half of the plant material because we're slowing the rotation way down. Right. And so let's just  give you a rough idea. If you got 24 inches of grass, and you want to take a calf, you go back  
**[0:12:58-0:13:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:12:58):**  down to 12 inches of grass. And what you'll end up doing at first is how I did it when I first  learned this system from Allen Williams, I was doing it the way you're supposed to do it. But  then I was I was converting, converting everything to pounds and consumption and  
**[0:13:15-0:13:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:13:15):**  the numbers that way you're just you're just down to looking at height.  Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, so, so height from the sense I guess I shouldn't say that it just  only just height but also you have to figure in what your cows are gonna consume per day, right?  
**[0:13:29-0:13:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:13:29):**  So let's say a cow on average, he's 10% of her body weight a day. So you have 1000 pounds,  you're gonna eat 100 100 pounds of dry matter, right? So your paddock size is gonna have to be  fit on that I didn't go into the complete detail. But yeah, your paddock size is gonna have to fit  
**[0:13:39-0:13:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:13:39):**  into how much forage they're gonna eat. So I kind of left out some details and say, glad you said  that Brian, that's really important. Because you can put them you can put cows in, you know,  running a million pounds stock density for, you know, 20 minutes and have the same impact,  
**[0:13:54-0:14:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:13:54):**  you know, that you can on running a paddock that's a half a mile long, you know, by, you know,  eight feet for a day, you know, with 30 some head of cows, so you can have the same impact,  you know, with whatever stocking rate I can run. So I guess that's another thing to stocking rate  
**[0:14:13-0:14:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:14:13):**  and stock density. You know, we've talked about that before, right? I focus a lot more on density,  and that's what's important. So yeah, so to counter, I guess the stupid simple way to put  it is just measure grasses, figure out how much they're gonna consume, figure up on average. So  
**[0:14:28-0:14:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:14:28):**  what I do when I first started out, I just figured out how far apart my T-fos were. And that's how  wide my paddock was going to be per foot. So when I first started, I know that my farm is quarter  mile wide. I know it's really simple, but that's max a simple person. That's how I did that. And  
**[0:14:42-0:14:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:14:42):**  so that knew how how big an area I need to put the paddocks originally when I first got into this.  And really simple method, you know, but it worked out. It's worked out pretty good. But I've trained  my eyes thanks to Jim Garish. I don't remember I was reading his book, or if I was watching a video  
**[0:14:59-0:15:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:14:59):**  from him. I'm not really sure. I don't know if it was Kick the Hay Abbot. There's a video, but this  was quite a few years ago. I know it was Jim Garish though. And he said he trained his eyes. And I was  like, wow, how stupid am I? I used my eyes to observe my crops, agronomy and everything else,  
**[0:15:12-0:15:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:15:12):**  but I wasn't using my eyes to observe my grass. And so I just kind of taught my eyes, I guess you  could say, of how much forward I was taking. And I can judge a paddock now, since I've been doing  this for, you know, what, coming up on five years, I guess, of how wide my paddock needs to be. And  
**[0:15:29-0:15:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:15:29):**  it's, it's relatively simple. So you can train your eyes. And I think that's the best method.  I think if you, you can tell when the cows grazing area too hard, and I'm not perfect.  I would say that I still fail 8-10% of the time, you know, on average. I'm being conservative there,  
**[0:15:48-0:16:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:15:48):**  I guess a little bit. But, you know, I'll over graze a paddock on accident, but I just might  give that paddock more rest. But that's important to you know, with this whole system that we talk  about, you know, is, is don't be in a rotation. The worst thing you can do on your ranch, in my  
**[0:16:05-0:16:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:16:05):**  opinion, is actually being what you would call a rotation. I never graze my farm the same way. Like  last year, I graze my farm counterclockwise. I'm grazing it clockwise this year. You know, it just  don't go into rotation, fluctuate stock density, and you can you can run as high as stock density  
**[0:16:22-0:16:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:16:22):**  as you want with however many animals you have. Just get them narrower and tighter. And, and,  and just nature is always different. It's always changing. And so just, you know, change, change,  your, change your ranch or farm, you know, for whoever's listening to this. That's, that's really  
**[0:16:35-0:16:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:16:35):**  important. And don't ever get stuck in what I would call a rotation. Awesome. All right.  So we've gotten at least four or five new listeners to the podcast, all the way back  since episode three. So why don't we back up a little bit. And who are you, guy? Like, let's  
**[0:16:56-0:17:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:16:56):**  talk a little bit about McCauley. Yeah, I guess I should introduce myself. So I'm McCauley King  Cane. I'm a farmer in Southwest Missouri. I'm about 30 miles north of Joplin where the big  tornado happened in 2014. Now we're up to around 880 acres of row crop land. And we have around six  
**[0:17:15-0:17:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:17:15):**  mama cows. So, you know, my context is, my context and my goals on my row crop land is we are 100%  no till when you do no tillage. We are 100% cover cropped. We have a very diverse cash crop rotation  of over 10 crops. And it's not even really rotation. It's more of like a shooting target of  
**[0:17:35-0:17:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:17:35):**  webs. We, we also, you know, we started implementing cattle on row crop land, I believe in 2016 was the  first time cattle met row crop land. And, you know, I always give this spiel. I wanted to no till and  the key to no telling was cover crops. And the key to, I want to know how to pay for cover crops. The  
**[0:17:58-0:18:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:17:58):**  key to cover crops is cattle. So every one of our, the land that we own, and at the 880 acres, the  only land that we do not own is about 128 of that. We own the rest. And, you know, we, the key to  cover crops is cattle. And so we have fence on all of our farms, but one that we own. And the only  
**[0:18:17-0:18:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:18:17):**  reason we don't have a, any fence on that farm yet is because I haven't put the water infrastructure  in yet to be able to put cattle on that farm. So, I mean, really a little bit of my, a little bit  more of my background, diving a little deeper, how I got started farming, everybody always asked me,  
**[0:18:30-0:18:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:18:30):**  well, how did you get started farming? When I was 20 years old, I lost my dad to cancer.  And I inherited my first 60 acres, paid for and cleared. So I got kind of a good, a good,  I got kind of a financial jump there with the first 60 acres to leverage the rest of the farm,  
**[0:18:46-0:19:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:18:46):**  I guess I should say. So I just kind of dove all the way in. I knew I couldn't afford tillage  equipment because it didn't make sense for a young farmer to build a, even afford a disc,  let alone, you know, much else. And so on my farm, all I have is a tractor, a drill, a planter,  
**[0:19:00-0:19:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:19:00):**  and a roller crimper. I don't own a combine. I don't own a single piece of tillage equipment.  I don't own a brush hog. I just, I'm pretty well basic and simple, you know.  What's more important, the tractor or the roller crimper?  
**[0:19:13-0:19:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:19:13):**  Ooh, probably the tractor because it's, it runs the planter and the drill as well. I've only got  one tractor. So it gets switched around a lot, Brian. It's like, oh, I got to put on the drill  this day. We got to put on the roller crimper tomorrow. Then it has to be on the planter by  
**[0:19:28-0:19:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:19:28):**  tomorrow evening. And we have to do this, have to do that. So it, it, it's the workhorse of the farm  for the most part. Oh, I guess I did forget to mention one of the most important piece of equipment  I have on the farm, which is my Polaris Ranger. I should say that is probably the most important.  
**[0:19:41-0:20:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:19:41):**  We do way more custom grazing of other people's livestock on our land than I have my own cows.  So it is, it is a big part of my wife and I's income is, is our Polaris Ranger and custom  grazing by far. So it's pretty important. They're handy like a pocket on a shirt. It's awful hard  
**[0:20:02-0:20:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:20:02):**  these days to get around and run an operation without a side-by-side. They save so much wear  and tear on a pickup, so much fuel and so much time. For sure, man. I'm way too lazy. I'm going  to go out there and walk and put up poly wire. Yeah, it's kind of nice to, I've got it set up  
**[0:20:19-0:20:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:20:19):**  with a thing from Livewire on a four wheeler. Oh yeah, I've seen it. Yep. Yep. We can run quite  a bit of poly wire off of that. My side-by-sides all have doors. So they're less than optimal for  building fence out of. Mine's just an open station Polaris, but it's, we bought a new one last year  
**[0:20:40-0:20:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:20:40):**  and it's a nice machine. I mean, it's a really nice machine and a lot better than what I used  to have. Used to have this 2012 Polaris with like, I don't even know how many hours. I don't know  how that thing's motor never blew, but it was a lot of hours. I'm going to say it was like 4,100  
**[0:20:55-0:21:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:20:55):**  hours maybe when we got rid of it. It had a gut. Yeah, it was wore out. I mean, I had replaced  about everything on that thing besides the motor, but it was shot. So good to get a new one.  So let's talk about your cash crops and your cover crops and rotations with cattle.  
**[0:21:16-0:21:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:21:16):**  Tell me how all that's worked the last year. Yeah, so, you know, we've been pretty dry. We  cut off rain about June 3rd and we had probably our annual rainfall before May 20th. So people  always are like, Oh, what? You get 40 inches of rain. Yeah, but it comes in about three months  
**[0:21:36-0:21:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:21:36):**  from about February to May. It's really great. And so that's kind of when you need to be planting  your cash crops as most people know. This year, row crop wise, I'm going to say I'm probably going  to have more failures and successes. I have a lot of I have some good. I've got some bad and I've  
**[0:21:57-0:22:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:21:57):**  got some ugly on my farm this year. I, my corn, I would say I'm going to be able to probably pick  for actual harvestable grain about a quarter of my acres because the rest of it was pollinating  when it was over 100 degrees for the two weeks and we never rain, of course. The soybeans  
**[0:22:19-0:22:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:22:19):**  have a really good chance. Hold on, I'm not a farmer. Tell me what that does.  Okay, so whenever, so when corn's pollinating, you know, you need the male and female to  pollinate together, right? So you need to have, you need to have rainfall to be able to soak the  
**[0:22:35-0:22:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:22:35):**  pollen down to the silks to pollinate the corn. So, and also corn will not pollinate when it's  above, I believe 92 degrees. And as you know, we've been well over 100 degrees for, I don't  know how many days it started. It's down, it's down a little bit now. We're back in the 90s now,  
**[0:22:48-0:23:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:22:48):**  so we're pretty good there. But it's been a very hot summer. So like I said, only about a quarter  of my corn I'll actually be able to pick. But the great thing is, is I can put cows everywhere else  I have corn that's going to be a failure. So I've already got guys calling me wanting custom grazing  
**[0:23:03-0:23:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:23:03):**  because hay's so short this year. So custom grazing went up 50 cents a head this year.  That's good. I mean, 50 cents a head. Yeah, 50 cent a head mire. Yep. A day. Yep. And that's good.  Yeah, my Milo looks really good. I'm really happy my Milo. It looks like it's gonna be good.  
**[0:23:26-0:23:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:23:26):**  My Korean lespedeza. It still has a really good shot. Because it doesn't start flowering until  about August. So it's gonna start you know, it's gonna start going to seed in late August. So it's  going to be okay there. My sunflowers were a flop this year, I'd say. We had really terrible insect  
**[0:23:44-0:24:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:23:44):**  pressure come on, and they wiped them out. And I chose not to go the standard way and use an  insecticide. And so I just let the grasshoppers desiccate the sunflowers down the stems. But the  way I raise my sunflowers is a little bit different. So I still am going to have good grazing come next  
**[0:24:01-0:24:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:24:01):**  fall if everything works out right. How we raise our sunflower is we go with a cereal grain in the  fall. And then I frost seed red clover in February. And then and then we go in after harvest of cereal  grain and we plant our sunflowers into the red clover. And so what I like about that is the red  
**[0:24:21-0:24:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:24:21):**  clover you kind of want that you know synchronized effect or mycorrhizae fungi with the legume being  with the sunflower because some flowers are high in action using plants. Right. And so you kind of  want the two to have this symbiosis. And since I don't use very much fertilizer at all, we don't we  
**[0:24:34-0:24:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:24:34):**  haven't applied any P and K in three years now on most of our farms. I want that symbiotic  relationship between the grass and the broadleaf to you know hopefully fix some action for the  sunflower. So even though the sunflower crop will be a failure, it was an open pollinated sunflower  
**[0:24:50-0:25:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:24:50):**  variety, not very expensive, you know. And I'll still be able to graze the red clover if we get  some rain in the red clover and come back next fall. And we also got a grain harvest off of that.  And the grain crops were really good this year. Wheat made 90 and the barley made 60. So I was  
**[0:25:04-0:25:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:25:04):**  super happy with my grain crops this year. So I guess it sounds like... With the price of wheat,  I'd be happy with 92. Yeah, yeah, I am pretty happy. I just like I said, I'm a, I guess I,  I don't know, I shouldn't say that it's going to be a failure. I think actually my wife and I will  
**[0:25:23-0:25:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:25:23):**  probably make just as much money as we probably did last year because the grain prices, what we  will have, are so much higher and our inputs are so low. But I just want success on every farm. And  I have all this thought process. Like I have all these ideas I want to do every year.  
**[0:25:37-0:25:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:25:37):**  And when weather hinders those ideas I've worked so hard and so much thought to put into,  you know, kind of bum a guy out. I mean, you know, and you just kind of, you got to stay positive and  just know that next year is gonna be better. And when I really think about the overview of my farm  
**[0:25:52-0:26:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:25:52):**  after I just talked about it, it's really not that bad. There's a lot of people are gonna be in a lot  worse shape than I am this year. And so I'd say that crop insurance will bail out a lot of farmers.  But, you know, as I've said before, a lot of my crops I can't get crop insurance on because I  
**[0:26:05-0:26:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:26:05):**  raised so many different specialty crops. So, but I think the farm's pretty resilient because we have  so much diversity on our farm that we'll be all right.  For sure.  
**[0:26:17-0:26:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:26:17):**  I wouldn't feel again, they just cut off. I always do that.  It's all right. You're good.  Brian, do you have a garden in right now?  
**[0:26:26-0:26:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:26:26):**  Yes, we do. And, you know, the corn took off. I got the corn in third week of April 22nd,  24th is when I got, by the time I got everything planted, we sprouted the seeds inside. Like I'm  talking about planting 400 corn plants, right? So we sprouted the seeds inside to make sure that  
**[0:26:45-0:27:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:26:45):**  they were going to germinate. Went out, each one of them in their own little special hole with drip  irrigation. Came back and covered that up with prairie hay, thrown chicken and duck shavings out  of the chicken and duck house down the rows and out amongst the plants, planted some pole beans.  
**[0:27:06-0:27:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:27:06):**  Oh, nice. Like a milpa?  Yeah. No, just the straight up pole beans to get the nitrogen.  Okay. Yeah.  
**[0:27:14-0:27:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:27:14):**  I didn't want to do milpa because squash beetles are kind of a thing.  Okay.  And the milpa mix I had leftover from last year was like, it was like a 43-way blend. And I think  
**[0:27:25-0:27:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:27:25):**  27 of them were like squash, melon, cucumber type situations that, you know, those squash  beetles just love to be on. So we stayed away from that. The chickens have been in there for quite a  while doing a lot of good bug control. I think, you know, obviously I'm no corn growing expert,  
**[0:27:46-0:28:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:27:46):**  right? I know how to grow Indian grass and that's not even close to corn.  I can see that I know a lot of them didn't pollinate. I know I had a lot of pollination  problems. And yeah, I can see that the hot weather kept everything from pollinating correctly.  
**[0:28:04-0:28:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:28:04):**  I'm also having something really weird happen. Like I'll have immature kernels start rotting  and getting fungus inside the husk while it's still in the ear and the kernels are still  developing. I even had...  
**[0:28:19-0:28:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:28:19):**  Are they like big white puff balls that's smut?  No, it's not smut. And it might not be. It'll probably look different anyway because this is  a gruesome atomic orange and it was like it was a flop. It was bad because just as soon as it was  
**[0:28:36-0:28:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:28:36):**  starting to really starting to want to ear out because that's like an 80-day corn. As soon as  it was wanting to start to do things, it got super hot and we just it just got super, super hot and  it never really pollinated well. But the wage giant corn, oh man, I've got some 10-foot tall  
**[0:28:54-0:29:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:28:54):**  plants. It's pretty cool stuff. But it's not pollinating completely and I've peeled back  a couple of years and there's some rot and then there's even kernels that are trying to sprout  roots while they're in the ear. Does that make any sense to you?  
**[0:29:10-0:29:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:29:10):**  Are you over watering?  We have drip irrigation.  Are you over watering? That's not my question.  
**[0:29:17-0:29:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:29:17):**  I don't think so.  Okay, because typically with fungus and diseases like that, typically they're,  you know, I would not, I'm going to call soil-borne diseases, I would actually call them  
**[0:29:29-0:29:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:29:29):**  water-borne diseases. Some of the stuff you're talking about like mold and stuff like that can  be caused from too much water. And yeah, that's my thought too. But it's been so super dry here  and you know, the rot, the mold, it's all the way up in the ear three foot off the ground.  
**[0:29:48-0:30:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:29:48):**  Right, right. So, you know, where's that plant water from?  Yeah, yeah, water moves inside plants. I just figured that out.  Yeah, yes, kind of like our bodies in a way, you know?  
**[0:30:01-0:30:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:30:01):**  Yeah, yeah, circulatory system. Oh, how about that?  So, the corn hasn't been great. Tomatoes went in kind of late and they are just now starting to  really produce. By the time this comes out, we might be up to our eyeballs and tomatoes,  
**[0:30:20-0:30:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:30:20):**  but we've had potatoes. We've had a lot of potatoes. We've had some good onions. We've  had a lot of salads from different greens and spinaches and even a little cucumber and  some carrots and peppers was the most recent thing to be harvested. So, there's some peppers  
**[0:30:42-0:30:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:30:42):**  we're working on. Not like, not green peppers and red peppers, like evil little purple peppers  and little black peppers and little ones that are red. They're supposed to turn a different  color when they get ripe. I look at somebody and she says, hey, this is supposed to taste  
**[0:30:58-0:31:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:30:58):**  just like a habanero but not be hot. I'm like, no, thank you. No thanks.  Next writer. So, garden's doing good. We got a better bed of potatoes yet to dig up. So,  we're really, really hopeful that we'll have potatoes for most of the winter and tomatoes  
**[0:31:17-0:31:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:31:17):**  for most of the winter. Hey, I got a recommendation here. You should try masquerade potatoes.  Masquerade. They're beautiful. They have beautiful purple blooms. They're a gorgeous  taste. Just Google masquerade potatoes and you'll be like, I gotta get me some of those.  
**[0:31:34-0:31:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:31:34):**  I'll write that down. Masquerade. They're like a deep purple, right? They're very deep purple.  Yeah, they're beautiful and they're an old heirloom variety. We planted them a lot,  not this year, but the year before. Okay, no, actually, because the skin's white. Nevermind.  
**[0:31:53-0:32:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:31:53):**  We got like true purple potatoes and I did not like those.  Oh, really? I think so. Yeah.  I like these ones. They're good. They taste good and they're a little bit smaller, but  
**[0:32:07-0:32:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:32:07):**  I like just like for when I was like roast or something like that.  You know? Yeah. This is like a red potato, but with purple skin. Okay.  Is that what you're talking about? No. No masquerade is actually a white and purple.  
**[0:32:24-0:32:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:32:24):**  Like, so it almost looks like part of it's been peeled. It's kind of like splotchy.  Like white, white and purple. It's kind of spotty. The potato itself. Yeah. Or the potato c that I  don't know how you say that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like a whole scene,  
**[0:32:41-0:33:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:32:41):**  cow, but purple and white. Yeah. Right. Right. I'm not all sure what kind of strange potatoes  we have, but I know there's very few of them that are white. There's some that are black and purple  and red and white that are red inside or that are red outside and pink inside. There's yeah,  
**[0:33:01-0:33:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:33:01):**  potatoes are cool. They are. They are. And you know, a great way to raise no-till potatoes is  I learned this off Gabe Brown and he stole the idea from Bruce Stout. So I called him out on  that because I read Bruce book. But anyways, you know, you lay your potatoes down and then you put  
**[0:33:16-0:33:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:33:16):**  like a thick, you know, two, three inch layer of hay over the top of them. Gave, gave this to her.  I ate a little bit better with alfalfa because potatoes need, you know, pretty high use of, of,  of nitrogen phosphorus. And so, you know, he'd lay, he'd lay the alfalfa hay, which alfalfa is,  
**[0:33:31-0:33:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:33:31):**  of course, high in nitrogen being a legume over the top of the potatoes and they'd come through  and be really excellent. And so that's the method that we use in our garden is, is what I call the  Bruce Stout method with the Gabe twist in it without alfalfa. I'm just thinking of there were  
**[0:33:48-0:34:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:33:48):**  a couple of places where the hay, the Prairie hay that I put in my corn was real heavy with some,  with some vetches. Cause it was cut. I think it was cut like mid August last year,  you know, the vetches were still in bloom. That's nitrogen. The corn and the corn were those,  
**[0:34:10-0:34:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:34:10):**  those two big patches of vetch were those two big kind of clumps of vetch were in that hay  seemed to be doing pretty good. And I guess maybe that makes a little bit of sense. Why?  Yeah. Yeah. Carbon-nitrogen ratios are pretty important and everything. Aren't they?  
**[0:34:23-0:34:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:34:23):**  It's kind of the basis of how life kind of, I guess, cycles in a way, if you think about it,  you know, if you've got a low carbon-nitrogen ratio in your residue, it's going to break down  a lot faster and turn those nutrients back to the corn crop. And you've got a high carbon-nitrogen  
**[0:34:36-0:34:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:34:36):**  ratio. It's going to take a lot longer for it to turn back because the microbes are going to take  longer to consume it because as they needed that, you know, two parts carbon, one part nitrogen at  the beginning of the cycling period to start cycling. Speaking of chemical breakdowns and  
**[0:34:50-0:35:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:34:50):**  drought, do you have any Johnson grass that you're worried about grazing?  So, well, I guess kind of a double-edged sword there if you want to talk about that. So there's  some different philosophies behind that. I've read quite a few different things about  
**[0:35:04-0:35:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:35:04):**  paresic acid and nitrate. Let's go ahead and open the can of worms. And by the time this  episode comes out, it'll be probably too late for anybody to do anything. But there's always next  year. Okay. Okay. So, so one thing to keep in mind, when Johnson grass has been stressed,  
**[0:35:23-0:35:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:35:23):**  when it's little and you have a regrowth in a dry period, you're going to have a higher chance  of a crescent acid. Anytime there's drought stress on regrowth. And also, you know, most of your  nitrate accumulation in sorghums or Johnson grass is actually in the lower six inches of plant,  
**[0:35:42-0:35:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:35:42):**  approximately about 92% of it is in the bottom six inches of the plant. So if you're not grazing  it down to the dirt, you should be okay from the nitrate standing, the nitrate point. But I don't  really think if you're applying nitrates, it should be a problem, but I can't back that up  
**[0:35:56-0:36:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:35:56):**  with science or data. I don't really have any data points or university studies to back that.  That's just kind of my theory. So don't hold me to that. And what's the hat? Yeah.  All data is in it. Yes, it is. It is. And every bit of data has lies and money flowing through  
**[0:36:16-0:36:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:36:16):**  it, I'm sure. So one thing, you know, another thing on sorghum that I do personally on my farm,  or on Johnson grass, I'm sorry, Johnson grass, is if we have those areas that are high in Johnson  grass, I'll just put the polywire around those areas where the cows can't touch them, and I'll  
**[0:36:32-0:36:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:36:32):**  let them almost go to full maturity. So even on a drought spell like, or I don't want to say drought,  because Gabe can kill me, but dry spell that we're having, even on a dry spell like we're having  right now, you know, if you let the Johnson grass go to maturity, you shouldn't have a problem with  
**[0:36:48-0:37:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:36:48):**  prussic acid or nitrate poisoning for not grazing too low. So both of the main concerns with  Johnson grass are both eliminated for the most part. And you know what prussic acid is? I mean,  prussic acid is a big deal. Another way it can happen is that... Well, I know what it is,  
**[0:37:03-0:37:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:37:03):**  but why don't you just go ahead and explain it. Okay, so it's cyanide gas. I mean, cyanide gas  coming out of cell membranes is the plan. So cell membranes expand from drought stress, or I forgot  to mention earlier, a freeze. And so the cell membranes expand. Also now we've got prussic acid,  
**[0:37:23-0:37:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:37:23):**  you know, apparent, we have to be careful, or cyanide gas, whatever you want to call it.  And so, you know what cyanide gas does? It comes in the body, and I believe it restricts the  oxygen flow throughout the body and the animal, and they essentially suffocate to death is the  
**[0:37:35-0:37:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:37:35):**  way I understand it. So not good. It cuts blood flow off, and it can have a lot of major issues,  especially in high, high parts, you know, when it's very, very serious. With nitrate poisoning,  what I found, because I almost had a big major boo-boo one year grazing sorghum that was too  
**[0:37:55-0:38:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:37:55):**  short, that wasn't ready to be grazed. I went out there after a day of them being out there,  and they're all huffing and puffing. Yeah, I put them on dry hay for a couple weeks.  And a lot of that, if you think about it, it's almost an imbalance of carbon nitrogen ratio in  
**[0:38:11-0:38:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:38:11):**  a way, nitrate poisoning is. So hear me out for just a second. I believe if you supplement  plenty of dry hay and make it a larger part of sedangrass that's high in nitrates,  I think the effects won't be as severe and you can keep grazing it. And the reason for that is  
**[0:38:29-0:38:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:38:29):**  because that cow's gut energy and protein or carbon nitrogen ratio is then balanced and leveled out.  And so you can kind of almost control that. You can kind of almost control that. And another  thing, speaking about a cow's gut, I want to run something by you, Brian. I don't know if I ever  
**[0:38:43-0:38:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:38:43):**  mentioned you guys before, but we know that healthy soil should have close to a one to one  fungal to bacteria ratio, correct? Well, the very first time I ever seen mushrooms on my row crop  land was after I grazed cattle. And this is another thing that I believe I don't have any data on or  
**[0:38:59-0:39:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:38:59):**  ever heard anybody else talk about, but I believe a cow's rumen is close to one to one in the fungal  to bacteria ratio in the rumen because the first time I grazed cattle in row crop land, I'd seen  mushrooms on the cow pads. And I think there's something there's some sort of link that we don't  
**[0:39:15-0:39:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:39:15):**  really understand between cattle and grasses and how they interact with each other. And so when  they graze, when animals graze, all rumen animals, I believe have this, when they graze grasses,  we're actually helping to return that fungal to bacteria ratio back to where it should naturally  
**[0:39:31-0:39:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:39:31):**  be around that one to one. And so that's very, I don't know, that's just an opinion of mine,  an observation I made, but I think it has a little bit of merit to it about cattle.  Well, I think that to some extent that over the last, I don't know, let's just call it 80 years  
**[0:39:51-0:40:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:39:51):**  of fungicides, I think we've used enough of them that we've killed off a lot of the beneficial  fungus. We've created blank spots for fungus in the world because we killed it with fungicide  and something that's just a little bit more resilient to what we used to kill the last  
**[0:40:12-0:40:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:40:12):**  thing with moves into that area and it turns out to be not as good. Like maybe some of the fungus  or mold that I'm having on my corn or black death mold that seems to be everywhere in the country.  Is that just here because we displaced something better that died with all the fungicides we used?  
**[0:40:32-0:40:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:40:32):**  Ding, ding, ding. Here's my opinion again. So I know you guys always love when I say that, but  I believe it's actually lack of following the principles of nature, lack of diversity. If  you're in a corn wheat bean rotation, you have two years of a cerium carryover. So that disease just  
**[0:40:48-0:41:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:40:48):**  keeps getting bigger and bigger and bigger. And so, and because it has a host plant, if in a  diverse pasture, you know, in some of my pastures where I have, you know, probably over 100 different  species of grasses, forbs, legumes, trees, shrubs, whatever, you know, you don't see those issues be  
**[0:41:03-0:41:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:41:03):**  prevalent. And that's because we have plenty of diversity out there. You know, the reason why,  you know, the reason why, you know, what you said, the black death mold is what you want to call it  runs across the country is because it has a host. There's corn raised all across the country and it  
**[0:41:18-0:41:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:41:18):**  has a host plant. And then if we want to talk about mycorrhizae fungi, we know that tillage  destroys the colonization of the spores, the mycorrhizae fungi. And so it'll eventually die  off or it'll starve to death without a living plant. So I mean, we have caused so many of our  
**[0:41:35-0:41:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:41:35):**  issues. Most of our drought issues are, in my opinion, almost 80% caused by farmers or ranchers.  I don't believe it's caused by emissions from vehicles. I believe it's actually a farmer rancher  issue more than it is a smog or I mean, that stuff plays a role. But when I think about  
**[0:41:54-0:42:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:41:54):**  when I think about, you know, what, 200 some million acres of row cropland a year that's tilled.  So every time you till you force oxygen, the soil carbon monoxide expelled back the atmosphere  to get rain, we have to have transpiration and respiration from living plants cycling,  
**[0:42:07-0:42:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:42:07):**  causing the water cycle to happen. So we have long periods of tillage. We're just wrecking the  system. And I'm not pointing the finger to be a jerk. But I'm just saying that, you know, we need  to look in the mirror sometimes when we want to point the finger at everybody else. So sometimes,  
**[0:42:22-0:42:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:42:22):**  maybe the biggest problem is actually, you know, us and we need to take a look at our reflection  and kind of think about how we can do better and be more environmentally sound and have a better  positive impact on the country. I think the clear vision is that we can all do better. Like all of  
**[0:42:38-0:42:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:42:38):**  us in livestock and food production, and all in food systems, we can all do this shit a lot better  than we're doing it now. For sure. For sure. And so, like I said, I didn't mean to step on your  toes there, Brian, but that was my opinion. I believe it's, you know, diversity of plants,  
**[0:42:56-0:43:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:42:56):**  lack of diversity of plants, creating host plants by having too tight of a rotation and row cropping  and tillage. And, you know, just basically not following the principles of nature, the principles  that, you know, we look at the native prairies and how they function, just mimicking that.  
**[0:43:12-0:43:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:43:12):**  It's nothing that's like new age type farming. It's just going back to the way that it worked  when we didn't have to add all these inputs. It makes so much sense. Yeah. Yep. So speaking of  inputs, I know you don't use any, but how bad is, use very little, how bad is $5 diesel fuel hitting  
**[0:43:32-0:43:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:43:32):**  you? Not bad at all. It kind of hurts our trucking company a little worse than it does me on the farm  because, you know, we don't have very many passes of fuel. I mean, my tractor, let's, so let's just  talk about my corn program for a second. We have a drill pass for the cover crop. So, you know,  
**[0:43:53-0:44:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:43:53):**  and the tractor gets with a drill about seven and a half acres an hour, and we're burning, you know,  roughly around six gallon an hour. And then we go to spring, we have a roller crimper pass on cover  crops that can be terminated with the roller crimper, and which doesn't cost very much fuel  
**[0:44:09-0:44:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:44:09):**  because you're not running your tractor at very high RPMs either, and you can run pretty fast.  And then we go with our planning and we hire, if we need to have the herbicide sprayed, you know,  some of our farms have now been two years without herbicide. But sometimes, you know, there's an  
**[0:44:26-0:44:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:44:26):**  issue that needs to be addressed for row cropping to be successful, I guess you could say.  And sometimes a herbicide is necessary or necessary evil, especially if you have ryegrass  in your cover crop system. So, yeah, I mean, and then they have the combine costs.  
**[0:44:42-0:44:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:44:42):**  And sometimes like this year, you know, we won't have that and we won't have some herbicide costs  and some farms will just have a cow grazing and a little four-wheeler running around moving the  poly wire every day. So, it's a lot less than like, not to point to some of my neighbors,  
**[0:44:54-0:45:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:44:54):**  but some of my neighbors make a fall tillage pass, litter pass. I don't think any of them listen  anyway. So, go ahead, point them out. Just don't name and shame. No, no, game right. A couple of  more tillage passes, then they finally plant after about the sixth or seventh pass. They finally plant  
**[0:45:11-0:45:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:45:11):**  their grain. Then they'll have multiple herbicide passes for two modes of actions or four. And then  they will go on to their B5 fungicide and they'll go to their tassel fungicide with an airplane.  And then they'll combine and they'll pick the corn and then they'll put that corn to bin.  
**[0:45:27-0:45:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:45:27):**  They'll haul it to their bin and then they'll haul it back out of their bin. And when you think about  how much fuel it takes to move from the time they plant the grain before they even plant it,  and I didn't mention some other things that they could do also in there, by the time they actually  
**[0:45:43-0:46:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:45:43):**  decide that they're going to plant a crop the following fall, you know, you're in a 12, 13 pass  system just to get grain to an elevator for it to be processed into what some people call food for  cattle, I guess, not me, but some people call that that, you know, but it's just insane. It's insane  
**[0:46:00-0:46:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:46:00):**  of how much energy goes into producing grain. And it sounds like your three passes to produce  a corn crop minus the combine is about two gallons an acre. It's not very much. I mean, I filled my  tractor up twice this year. So it, you know, not a very big tank. I didn't need to fill that probably  
**[0:46:23-0:46:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:46:23):**  the second time, you know, all the way up. I did. So relatively low expense system. Like I said,  if we do spray, you know, we do hire our co-op spray and then they, you know, rip us off on  a chemical cost, but that's all right. That's what co-op is for? Yeah, yeah, yeah. They were  
**[0:46:44-0:47:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:46:44):**  originally supposed to be cooperative to help farmers, but somehow money got involved, some  weird things happened. And then shareholders got involved. Now that you see that their CEOs,  you know, drive now probably 80, $90,000 pickups and have great big houses. I don't know,  
**[0:47:01-0:47:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:47:01):**  something weird happened. I'm not sure what happened, but that's above my pay grade, I guess.  So, yeah, I just go along with the flow, but yeah, you know, I was gonna give an example. This year,  I planned this milo field, this beautiful cover crop stand, and got a really darn good stand for  
**[0:47:16-0:47:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:47:16):**  the most part. I've got some places it's patchy. Got a really good stand. And I thought, okay,  I'm not gonna do herbists on this field. Mother nature had other ideas. The soybeans from last  year decided to germ that either shatter out of the combine or shattered out of pods.  
**[0:47:30-0:47:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:47:30):**  And I had soybeans with milo. My first thought was, okay, I'm not gonna spray the soybeans  because, you know, legume, grass, plus plus. Well, the milo was stunted and the beans kept growing.  And they were outgrowing the milo. So I decided to desiccate the soybeans. It was decision I made,  
**[0:47:50-0:48:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:47:50):**  you know, so we had a harvestable crop. You know, sometimes we have to do things  that we don't want to do on row cropping. And that's one thing I hate about row cropping.  The pasture thing is so simple in my system. It just, there's no herbicides involved. There's no  
**[0:48:06-0:48:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:48:06):**  even thought of an insecticide. I don't use insecticides in my row crop, but there's not  even a thought of that. There's just, there's not much that can go wrong. It's such a minimalistic  system that works so efficiently. It's better for the environment. You know, I preach all the time  
**[0:48:20-0:48:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:48:20):**  about regenerative ag, right? I've had this discussion with some of my close friends and I  say this publicly. No form of row cropping can ever be truly sustainable if that's what we're  trying to get. A diverse pasture with diverse amounts of types of livestock is the only truly  
**[0:48:40-0:49:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:48:40):**  sustainable system in my opinion. And I know I'm going to piss off a lot of people with that,  but I think that's the truth. That's okay. I'll jump on that hill with you and plant a flag.  Okay. The days of planting annual crops, of yearly planting of annual crops that require  
**[0:49:05-0:49:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:49:05):**  a lot of input, those days are numbered. Now I'm not saying that it's completely going to go away,  but the days of that are numbered. We talk about regenerative, we talk about sustainable and what  is ultimate long-term sustainable? We have to regenerate things. We have to scale down to get  
**[0:49:29-0:49:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:49:29):**  back to a point where things are sustainable. Maybe it is some sort of pasture cropping system  with livestock integrated where one out of three years you're getting a crop off that area and you  rotate livestock around between perennial pasture with annual crop strips in it. Anyway, I'm  
**[0:49:52-0:50:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:49:52):**  dreaming here and we don't have visual aids, so I'll shut up. Introducing C90 Ocean Minerals.  C90 offers complete nutrient support for today's farm and ranch. With over 90 minerals and trace  elements in nature's perfect balance, C90 remineralizes soil, increases pasture quality,  
**[0:50:10-0:50:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:50:10):**  and elevates the wellness of your herd. Enjoy improved drought resistance, increased pasture  protein and RFV values, and the elimination of pink eye and foot and hoof rot. Originally  discovered by Dr. Maynard Murray, C90 is the only product that meets his standards for sea energy  
**[0:50:25-0:50:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:50:25):**  agriculture, including a living ocean source and elevated amounts of macro and trace elements.  Freshly created in the Sea of Cortez and OMRI certified, C90 is free from pollutants  and contaminants including microplastics. Visit c90.com to learn more today. That's s-e-a-90.com.  
**[0:50:45-0:50:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:50:45):**  C90 is available through distributors across the U.S. including over 200 tractor supply locations.  Click the link in the show notes to find the dealer nearest you. We are always looking to grow  our network. Give us a call or email today and be sure to mention that Ranching Reboot sent you.  
**[0:50:59-0:51:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:50:59):**  Please check the show notes for all the contact information. Now back to this week's episode.  ship a crap ton of carbon nutrients over to other countries with corn, wheat, and beans.  And that's why they have crop insurance on those things. It's a system of setting up for this  
**[0:51:44-0:52:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:51:44):**  reductionist system that is baloney. And a big part of the problem is truly government. It is  government choking down the farmer. Farmers think, oh wow we're getting a new STEMI package. No,  you're getting aid to raise more corn and soybeans and wheat so that way they can trade it to other  
**[0:52:04-0:52:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:52:04):**  countries. They're not helping you. I hate to say you but Uncle Sam is not in your corner of this  ring. He's in the opposite and he just put his gloves on and he's ready to take you out in round  one. Farmers need to be aware of that and think about the entire logic and the basis of row  
**[0:52:27-0:52:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:52:27):**  cropping. Our ancestors row cropped some but what else did they have? They may have took in  laying periods, what they would call them, where they put in perennials for three years and grazed  them. We didn't get synthetic fertilizer until 1952 in Missouri. We didn't get synthetic fertilizer  
**[0:52:48-0:53:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:52:48):**  in 1952. So how did we farm all those years without synthetic inputs? It always blows my  mind when people say they have to have, I'm going on a tangent here, but it blows my mind when  people like farmers think they have to have these synthetic inputs because I always go back to them  
**[0:53:08-0:53:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:53:08):**  like well how did everybody do before 1948 Missouri? Well that's different. No it's not.  Actually our soils are more poorly degraded now than they were back then even. So it's amazing  and you know and there's all have you ever noticed there's always a new product and this is going to  
**[0:53:24-0:53:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:53:24):**  give you x, y, z in yield right? I mean you don't talk about ck. There's a new biostimulant that  amazingly is just protozoa but it's going to give or a zodobacter. It's an azotobacter bacteria.  It's a nitron fixing bacteria. You're going to put this on your crop and it's going to give you  
**[0:53:41-0:53:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:53:41):**  a heck of a lot of yield. It's going to give you 10 bushel on average. Well how come in row cropping  when you add all these different things you know oh you're supposed to get eight bushel from this,  10 bushel from this, nine bushel for that. Well I should have 500 bushel corn. Well how come I'm  
**[0:53:55-0:54:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:53:55):**  picking 200 bushel corn? It doesn't you know x plus y does not equal z or whatever. I don't know.  I suck at algebra but you know. Two plus two does not equal 22. Yeah exactly there you go.  So it's just they always sell you this stuff based off of yield. That's what I was getting at. They  
**[0:54:13-0:54:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:54:13):**  always base you these products and they sell them to you with you look at your yield you're going  to gain and so I'm not opposed to trying products in my farm. I've tried a lot of different products  done side by sides. Most of these products are crap. I mean they really are. They're just crap  
**[0:54:25-0:54:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:54:25):**  and they're selling you just crap. P and K I believe is an entire farce if you just keep  living plants in your system. I don't believe P and K is even even one percent of what matters  to crop yield. I really don't and P and K is one of our most expensive inputs on a farm and even  
**[0:54:47-0:55:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:54:47):**  even ranchers. A lot of ranchers put you know in P and K down and I think it's a farce. A lot of  these a lot of these bug and jug type things are a farce. Now pump to break slow dive I will  reiterate I think that some mycorrhizal products on an early no-till cover crop system might be  
**[0:55:08-0:55:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:55:08):**  beneficial for that farmer. They're just going to do side by side to know whether it is or not  but a lot of stuff is like it's just basically crap. I mean it's just crap that they sell to us  and it's it's not true and think about this for a second Brian and C.K. think about this. Who sells  
**[0:55:24-0:55:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:55:24):**  us these chemicals and these fertilizers mostly? Bayer right? Okay so the products that we use to  raise our food we we use their products and when we get sick who sells us the medicine as well?  Who sells us medicine? Is it Bayer? Last week I talked about the Georgia Guidestones which means  
**[0:55:45-0:56:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:55:45):**  the ATF, NSA, CIA and FBI are already listening so let's get all the rest.  Yes I mean it's I mean it's true though think about it. It's true though I mean they sell us  that they sell us the crap that's supposed to help our crops but then when people get sick  
**[0:56:04-0:56:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:56:04):**  to sell us the medicine is supposed to help that and then we get cancer going to sell you the  CNN News sponsored by Pfizer. Yeah and the next news segment is about that you need to get another  vaccine. Yeah there's no conflict of interest there none. No definitely not and also these  
**[0:56:23-0:56:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:56:23):**  pharmaceutical companies would never ever try to persuade a politician to view their way not ever  they would never do that. No and and you know they're they're of the utmost integrity and I  know that they would never try to buy off any scientists or any researchers to ghost write or  
**[0:56:41-0:57:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:56:41):**  to falsify data. It's honest and lunging. Yeah I know. All right let's take the sarcasm head off  for a second and keep going. Yeah yeah no kidding. No well you know it's I cannot cover everything  that's going on my farm you know like what you asked me earlier within even probably a six hour  
**[0:57:05-0:57:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:57:05):**  segment but I will highlight some of the the views and the things that I that I visualized on my farm  that anyone can come on my farm. I have an open door policy it's free we give out farm tours all  the time to people that just want to come see it whether you're from the city or from or you're a  
**[0:57:19-0:57:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:57:19):**  farmer or rancher. We have open door policy on our farm and some things I've observed on my farm this  year is number one way more diversity in my pasture and my soil on my row crop land is starting to have  gorgeous structure at least three and four inches down beautiful aggregation three to four inches  
**[0:57:39-0:58:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:57:39):**  down and I've also noticed that the cows the cow herd this year is some of my best cows I have  ever had. I mean I've got I've got four stud bulls that I consider really a way above average South  Bull bulls and I know I'm kind of biased there because I raised them but they they look very  
**[0:58:03-0:58:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:58:03):**  fantastic and speaking of them and speaking of my field day did I tell you what else happened  before my field day? Are we talking about the one back in May? The 10 inches of rain? Yeah yeah yeah  I tell you what else happened there. A forty-some mama cow pulled down river.  
**[0:58:21-0:58:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:58:21):**  Forty-some mama cow pulled cows down river. That's that's less than ideal. So how'd that situation work out?  Okay so you know there's a water tank where I've gauged the high water area before and I thought  okay I'll move the cows up past this tank they'll be safe never seen the water get there before.  
**[0:58:41-0:59:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:58:41):**  So you know what happens whenever water gets up big the cow or when it was raining really hard  I should say the cows decided that night that they would go back towards the hedgerow which  ironically is next to the river and then they got an island. They found themselves on a little island.  
**[0:59:00-0:59:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:59:00):**  Forty-some mama cow South Poles and of course the polywire that I'd set up the day before to try to  help keep them off there was also underwater and this was not supposed to be this big of rain.  They were shocked when it happened you know go figure all that works for the weather.  
**[0:59:14-0:59:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:59:14):**  I've had seven inches on a zero percent chance day before. Yeah that's how I felt that day.  So talk about being sick waking up that morning seeing my cows on an island.  Well as the river kept increasing pretty soon they were all swimming down river and I called  
**[0:59:34-0:59:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:59:34):**  a kid that works with me and I had another friend that showed up and we swam in the river  and we lost eight animals down river. I don't know what happened to them. I would assume the worst  but those South Poles I tell you what are survivors. They swam for I'm not exaggerating  
**[0:59:54-1:00:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=0:59:54):**  when I say probably three hours. They swam for three hours straight against current  and when these animals come out they were exhausted and I was exhausted and I thought  I was the world's worst rancher on this planet. That feeling will come back over and over and  
**[1:00:13-1:00:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:00:13):**  over through your career. We all feel it from time to time. Yes and what I was gonna say though was  how quickly they rebounded. Okay yeah. By the time I got the cattle back to the pasture that evening  and then another one showed up later like the next day or two or three days later I don't remember  
**[1:00:34-1:00:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:00:34):**  a few more actually did show up. By the time they got back to grass they did not know  that they were stressed and these bulls like there was a bull his number is 116.  So the one stands for 21 and then he was the 16th captain born and he was all the way across  
**[1:00:56-1:01:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:00:56):**  the river and I called I got this weird call that sounds like I don't know what you call it like I  know what you call it like I got if a if a frog and a donkey combined for a cow call that's what  my cow call is so I did I found the frog donkey horn and he he put it in turbo and he swam across  
**[1:01:18-1:01:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:01:18):**  the current to me came to me he's like there's my human he's gonna get me safe. Yeah. He swam all  the way across the river come up on land and you know what the first thing he did after swimming  for that many hours was starting eating grass and standing there right next to me it was it was it  
**[1:01:37-1:01:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:01:37):**  was insane and he is one of the best looking animals on the farm he's one of those four that  I said was a stud he has just built and I think about it it's because he had such good exercises  swimming in the river he's built he's just stout as could be just muscle and looks amazing.  
**[1:01:54-1:02:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:01:54):**  I like I said I just yeah that that was a very humbling experience so yeah it's been a lot it's  been a year for ups and downs I will say it has been it has been a roller coaster but you know  ultimately my wife's healthy my kids are healthy I'm healthy you know the animals right now are  
**[1:02:14-1:02:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:02:14):**  still grazing the row crops are thirsty but they're surviving the sun shining you know it's  a good day it's a good day and it's a good day to be a farmer or rancher you know it's we are I'm  thankful almost every day I step out on the land and look at the land and be able to work with the  
**[1:02:30-1:02:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:02:30):**  land every day it's just a it's a wonderful gorgeous thing that we can do you know as farmers  ranchers. I think we're we're honored it's an honor it's a privilege to be able to care for  the land and raise food and I just wish the government regulations and public perception  
**[1:02:48-1:03:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:02:48):**  we're a little different and maybe not quite as hostile sometimes. Right right but hey man it  takes people like it takes people like you making a difference this podcast you know it takes  everybody it's this is not one person cannot do this it takes Alejandro in Mexico it takes Dr.  
**[1:03:08-1:03:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:03:08):**  Christine Jones it takes Gabe in North Dakota it takes you in Kansas it takes me it takes Russell  Hendrickson in North Carolina it takes Jimmy Emmons in Oklahoma it takes everybody it takes  it takes everybody it takes a collective whole of people to try to change the normal and and it's  
**[1:03:24-1:03:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:03:24):**  community it's a community of well-minded people and there's people that you know that that have  made huge impacts that didn't necessarily come from agricultural background take Jessica Nad for  example did not come from agricultural background and has made a huge positive impact on all of  
**[1:03:40-1:03:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:03:40):**  this she was actually the first one that found me and got me I guess what you could say the public  eye you know and just there is so many people making a huge difference and some of these  companies man some of these companies they're trying to step up you know General Mills is  
**[1:03:54-1:04:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:03:54):**  trying to step up they they think what they've been doing in the past I don't want to speak for  them but the way I take it from outside looking in is that they want to change they want to do better  multiple companies you know Man of Old Incorporated, Cook's Venture,  
**[1:04:10-1:04:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:04:10):**  even you know McDonald's is even trying to do I mean McDonald's is in talks with some of the  people that I'm friends with and involved with there is major companies trying to change and  this is not government pushing them to change this is not because of regulation or being forced to  
**[1:04:26-1:04:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:04:26):**  change this is a human aspect in a human interval in our lives where we're trying to change to to  change to to help regenerate our climate our soil our environment our people our animals our legacies  it's all together it's just one whole you know holistic united group of people and it's just it's  
**[1:04:49-1:05:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:04:49):**  just gorgeous I just I just can't I can't blabber enough about it as you can tell it just it's  really cool to see all this come together. And I think one of the things that's driving it like a  major driver and CK I bet you'll either back me up on this or you'll tell me I'm wrong.  
**[1:05:05-1:05:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:05:05):**  Is all the companies starting to worry about their ESG scores?  They're all getting ESG arms.  Yeah, yeah.  
**[1:05:16-1:05:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:05:16):**  Because that's like, you know, that that's for lack of a term, you know, that that's a woke business  will have an a high ESG score and be you know, worry about the environmental and social and  cultural justice bullshit. I worry about some of the definitions of that. And I worry about some  
**[1:05:35-1:05:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:05:35):**  other paths that that could lead us down as far as tying tying an ESG score to a personal level.  Right.  And you know, some of the ramifications that can have with you know, digital currency.  
**[1:05:48-1:06:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:05:48):**  That's a whole nother conspiracy theory rabbit trail. But the ESG, you know, that's going to be  reported to big investors. And so yeah, you'll have big green investment funds that have billions  of dollars. And if a company is not, you know, working towards better in their ESG score in  
**[1:06:04-1:06:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:06:04):**  certain ways that, you know, the investors are going to look for, they're not going to invest  with them. Right. And I think a lot of companies like some of the ones that you named, I'll go  ahead and name drop a couple Cargill Burger King. I think they're really almost in a panic right now  
**[1:06:19-1:06:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:06:19):**  of the promises that they've made that are coming due in six or seven years towards the end of the  decade, you know, to be carbon neutral. Like, I don't think any of them knew what that meant  when they made the promise. I don't think any of them had half of an idea what that meant when they  
**[1:06:35-1:06:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:06:35):**  made the promise. And, you know, they're trying to rapidly improve their ESG scores to, you know,  to maintain their appeal for financing because the whole, you know, the Wall Street finance model is  changing. You know, it's going to a lot of crowdsourcing and the younger group of investors  
**[1:06:53-1:07:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:06:53):**  has access to a whole different, a whole different kind of information and they have entirely  different values than the last generation of dot-com investors had. So they know they've got  to change the game or they know they've got to change their public perception and how they do  
**[1:07:11-1:07:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:07:11):**  business. I'm just wondering, you know, if some of these companies are really bought into it for the  right reasons or not. And that being said, we maybe shouldn't question a company's reason or  organization's reason for wanting to be involved in regenerative agriculture and sustainable food  
**[1:07:33-1:07:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:07:33):**  systems, whatever angle they're coming at. Like, we can find common ground in reducing inputs,  reducing supply chains and try to take care of our communities. And if we can't find common ground  there, maybe we shouldn't do business. Well, and also, you know, another thing, Brian, you know,  
**[1:07:53-1:08:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:07:53):**  is a lot of these companies don't understand what carbon is. They don't understand. They think it's  a stagnant object that you can just place in the soil. It stays there forever. It's not, you know,  that's whenever Indigo, when they first started to, you know, calling and tooting everybody's horn,  
**[1:08:06-1:08:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:08:06):**  you know, they promised you all this stuff. I said, do you understand the carbon cycle?  And how are you going to measure? Are you measuring water extractable carbon? Or are you  measuring the 50 to 58% of carbon in organic matter? How are you measuring this? And so,  
**[1:08:24-1:08:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:08:24):**  you know, carbon is a cycle. It's just like nitrogen cycle, the water cycle. It's not this  stagnant object that we just move around in place and then it's there. And to be carbon neutral,  to me, the entire terminology doesn't make any sense from a company's view. Because I don't see  
**[1:08:44-1:09:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:08:44):**  how they can ever claim to be that. Because you think about it, whatever products that they have,  they have to haul those said products. So, they're hiring outside trucking companies to hire those.  And I also aren't there in my cell. Yeah, yeah, right. Those aren't that's not their emissions,  
**[1:09:03-1:09:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:09:03):**  right? It goes back to the difference between scope one, two and three emissions. Do you know  what those are? No. Okay, I got a good car analogy. And it's probably inaccurate. And if you got a  better one, go ahead and write in and explain it to me. But so like, we're building a car, okay,  
**[1:09:19-1:09:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:09:19):**  our scope one emissions are the energy that we use to actually to put the sub assemblies together.  Okay, and get that thing out the door, from the time those parts land till the time that assembly  leaves. That's our scope one emissions. And that's what they're worried about. Okay, that's what  
**[1:09:36-1:09:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:09:36):**  companies like Burger King and McDonald's and Wendy's and Long John Silver's and Pizza. That's  what they're worried about. They're worried about their scope one emissions, like, how is our carbon  change from the time this crap hits our door till the time you know, it's in a trash can going out  
**[1:09:48-1:10:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:09:48):**  the backside or the customer leaves with it. That's what they're worried about. So, scope two  is going to be all the various sub assemblies that go into the car. It's going to be the box  of tomatoes, the box of onions, the carton of flour coming to the subway to make the sandwiches.  
**[1:10:04-1:10:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:10:04):**  Okay, those are scope two emissions. So what all emissions are required to produce, transport,  refine that product? Okay, where it gets really wild is when we get down to scope three emissions.  Okay, so then in the car, you're talking about the emissions from the mine to mine the iron,  
**[1:10:28-1:10:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:10:28):**  to mine the coal, the emissions at the steel plant, the emissions at the rolling mill,  the emissions at the forming dye, the emissions at the sub assembly plant,  and the employees, right? And all their employees. So,  
**[1:10:41-1:11:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:10:41):**  a simple business with short supply chains like ours, okay, we can potentially survive a scope  three emissions analysis and come out looking really good. Will Harris has done it.  Nobody else can do it. Okay, it's not possible for anybody else to survive it.  
**[1:11:03-1:11:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:11:03):**  Okay, I can't say that because it's probably going to last forever.  I find it very, very unlikely that in 2022,  any business can survive a scope three emissions analysis.  
**[1:11:16-1:11:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:11:16):**  With employees, you mean?  People without employees. I mean, even if it's just a show.  Well, what about, okay, hold up, pump the brakes. What about like,  
**[1:11:31-1:11:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:11:31):**  a little bit like a farmer who maybe just produces food for himself?  Look, if we're talking an Amish farmer with horses, okay, I'll get behind that, right?  Okay, but so you're saying it's not possible, but I'm saying it's not impossible, right?  
**[1:11:49-1:12:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:11:49):**  You know, Amish farmer without any inputs, that's, you know, tractor drawn machinery.  Amish farmer without any inputs, that's, you know, tractor drawn machinery. I could get there.  I could get that he's got, you know, on the route doing regenerative stuff, right?  
**[1:12:08-1:12:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:12:08):**  I could get that they'd survive a scope three emissions analysis and maybe even be quite  positive. I could probably get to scope two and be positive, but getting that scope three,  you know, which is going to be all the machinery that I need, like my Gator.  
**[1:12:20-1:12:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:12:20):**  Well, that's going to be all that's going to be a hard push.  Yeah, that would be. Yeah, I get what you're saying. Yeah, I mean, it's just that is,  is that realistic though for where we're at ever? I mean, I don't know if that could ever be the,  
**[1:12:35-1:12:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:12:35):**  and maybe I'm wrong, you know, but I just, I don't see where we're at within with the industrial  system, you know, how we could ever even major change, right? But people are going to learn to  live without the conveniences of everyday life. I mean, the convenience of not having Walmart,  
**[1:12:53-1:13:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:12:53):**  the convenience of things like that, you know, when you talk about the scope of that.  And, you know, there's probably some, we definitely have some advantages by creating  emissions. I hate to say that, but there's quite a few advantages and my views kind of,  
**[1:13:12-1:13:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:13:12):**  I guess, smash on each other, because I believe in more independent businesses.  You know, my first thought yesterday, one of my first thoughts, I shouldn't say my first thought,  one of my first thoughts when I was driving home and I drove past where Mark has wreck yesterday  
**[1:13:27-1:13:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:13:27):**  was we live on baseline and there's a wreck every single week here. And it's a short stretch.  Every single week there's a wreck and the state will not fix this road. It drops off  five feet at a straight angle off the edge of the road. I mean, it's steep  
**[1:13:42-1:14:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:13:42):**  and these trucks get off of it and cars get off it all the time. And I thought if this  road was privatized and this happened one time, they would be scared to death of getting sued.  And they would change, they would change this road instantly. And the fact that it's paid for  
**[1:14:01-1:14:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:14:01):**  via taxpayers, me and you, it is not fixed. And so someone who, who the community obviously cared  so much for and so much on Facebook about that, about Mark, maybe his life could have been spared  if government wasn't involved in our road system. So see how small that is? You know what I'm saying?  
**[1:14:22-1:14:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:14:22):**  See how small of something that is not privatized becomes an issue. And, and, and what I was getting  at with that was there's a lot of things that I feel are conveniences that I enjoy with big  business because I'm sorry, but like, it's sure handy being able to go to the gas station.  
**[1:14:43-1:14:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:14:43):**  And when I'm headed to, you know, somewhere and stop and get gas and grab a quick snack,  that's terrible for me. That's probably going to give me cancer and drive on to my own free choice  by my own free choice. I like to have that, you know, of like, okay, I'm gonna put this poison,  
**[1:14:58-1:15:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:14:58):**  my body, it's terrible for me. I'm not going to judge you.  But I'm just saying, you know, I mean, but that's, that's, that's where I draw that hard line  between environmental conscious and, and political. That's a tough way to put it, but political  
**[1:15:17-1:15:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:15:17):**  viewing, and how I view politics and how I view businesses, and I view the government, there's a,  there's a hard line there and drawing a hard line, you know, it's there, they can sometimes be the  same thing, but other times they can be completely counterintuitive, if you know what I mean.  
**[1:15:35-1:15:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:15:35):**  Yeah, yeah, I understand. I definitely understand.  So what else is on your mind, Mac?  Well, a few other things. I would like to hear more about your cattle operation.  
**[1:15:57-1:16:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:15:57):**  I would like to hear more about how your cows are doing.  My cows are doing great. We've been on a salt and scenery program since,  since early May. Haven't had any supplement at all. No fly control. No insecticide. Nothing.  
**[1:16:14-1:16:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:16:14):**  Haven't had any problems with any pink eyes, weepy eyes, bad feet, nothing. I did do a week  of mineral water treatment, which I think definitely helped level out some level out  some what I was seeing that I thought were copper bumps. They, they tended to shrink a little bit  
**[1:16:32-1:16:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:16:32):**  and some cadmium issues that I've seen in some of the customer cows in the spine. That's going  to be a ridge at between the hook between about the hook bones and the shoulder bones.  When you start seeing that ridge, especially when you start seeing the individual vertebrae  
**[1:16:47-1:17:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:16:47):**  in it, that's indicative of cadmium problem. And the mineral water really helped clear that up this  year too. They're really good. I mean, the cows look better than they did last year at this time.  Which, you know, a lot of guys, a lot of the old timers will say when it's hot and dry,  
**[1:17:09-1:17:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:17:09):**  the grass is really hard. It's really hard. It's really punchy. It's really got a lot of punch.  And I'm definitely seeing that this year that, you know, yeah, they're, they're sucking down  whatever they can find and they're kind of having to hustle for it and find it. You know, primarily  
**[1:17:24-1:17:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:17:24):**  30, 40% of it is weeds. Corrientes are half goat anyway. So they're out there licking willow trees  at nine o'clock in the morning and trying to eat my Oaks down. But yeah, they're, they're just going  to town. The Corrientes look, I mean, they look great. All the young stock, man. Okay. So some  
**[1:17:47-1:18:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:17:47):**  of my two-year-olds are, some of my two-year-olds aren't a whole lot bigger than my one-year-olds,  honestly. I've got some one-year-old cross, but most of my two-year-olds are straight up Corriente.  So we're going to expect them to be a little bit smaller and a little bit finer and the rest.  
**[1:18:06-1:18:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:18:06):**  Almost all of my one-year-olds are going to be crossbred. And I've got some really great looking  one-year-olds. I think I've said it before on a podcast, but so last winter it was about, it was  like late November. I moved out of the Northeast part of the ranch, which is where I was for a  
**[1:18:24-1:18:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:18:24):**  while. I was gone for about two weeks. I'd been out of there about two weeks. I wasn't gone. It's  not like I ever go anywhere. But I just didn't go back up there and look, because you move these  things 50, 60, 70, 80, 100 times, they're there. I know they're all here. I saw the last three that  
**[1:18:47-1:19:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:18:47):**  are always the last three. We're probably all here. So I wasn't paying much attention. Anyway,  a couple of weeks later I looked and there were two of them, a yearling heifers that were separated  from the main herd back up in this big cell of the ranch. I tried to get them back a couple of times.  
**[1:19:12-1:19:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:19:12):**  There are a couple places on the ranch that are just, if you get cows stuck in them,  it can be real damn inconvenient to get them out of just because of terrain. You can't get from  here to there on a horse, turbo razor. You just need to have a helicopter or you're going to  
**[1:19:28-1:19:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:19:28):**  whirl around. By the time you go way around, those two would slip past and go somewhere else or  they'd slip another draw that I'd have to go all the way around. I fought with them several times  and ended up saying, you know what? Screw it. I will leave the gates open so you guys can come  
**[1:19:47-1:20:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:19:47):**  back close to the herd. They never did. I had two heifers, two yearling heifer or two baby heifer  calves that weaned themselves out of the main herd, had the run of about 600 acres for close  to six months. They did not get salt. They did not get protein. I didn't even go up there and break  
**[1:20:11-1:20:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:20:11):**  ice for them. Those are two of the best looking yearling heifers running around that herd right  now. One of them is probably the biggest. Yeah. If she's not the biggest, she's on the top three  list for weight. Well, you think about that. They had free access to everything that was good.  
**[1:20:32-1:20:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:20:32):**  They had access. I mean, two cows on 600 acres had access to everything that was good on the farm.  And so they got choice all the time. Yeah. And so that's one probably reason also. And also the fact  that they didn't have the stress. I mean, that's what's good about having a big herd like what you  
**[1:20:48-1:21:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:20:48):**  have because it actually creates higher competition. And so you actually have better  genetics come out of a larger herd. And those small ones, those are not, I shouldn't say small  ones, the two that were by themselves didn't have as much stress in natural competition  
**[1:21:02-1:21:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:21:02):**  because they're just by themselves. So that makes a lot of sense. That makes a heck of a lot of  sense actually. But ever since we got them back with the herd, they're in the middle.  They're with the group. They're not off by themselves. They're checked in to the group.  
**[1:21:19-1:21:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:21:19):**  So you were talking, go ahead.  They're staying with the cows.  Yeah. They're staying with the cows now. They're like, okay, we spent our six months out on  
**[1:21:34-1:21:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:21:34):**  sabbatical. We're good. We want to stay with the group. That was kind of scary as shit.  I was thinking that. Like, I think it scared them.  Just a little bit ago, you were talking about your South poles. And I don't know if you know  
**[1:21:48-1:22:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:21:48):**  this or not. If you listened last week, you would to last week's episode is I got a bull  that's half South pole, half Michonne.  Oh, did that by chance come from Seth Losack?  
**[1:22:07-1:22:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:22:07):**  No, it came from Michael Kinsey by way of Richard Coomer, Texas.  Seth Losack is doing the same thing. So this little bull's dad, I call him Carlos. Carlos' dad,  his name was Hamish. He was also owned by Michael Kinsey. Hamish now works for Joel Salatin at  
**[1:22:29-1:23:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:22:29):**  Polyface. Oh, cool. Yeah. All world. That's cool. And the other bull I have out right now is a  Fleckevee-influenced sematall. That's working. Have you ever looked into,  oh, I just went blank on their names. They're only found in California now.  
**[1:23:06-1:23:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:23:06):**  Cannot think what they're called. A little bit bigger body, but they're a heel animal.  They're a little bit bigger than I would probably want, but they are, man, what is their names?  I have to look what that breed is. I just went blank, but I'll text you later. Cannot  
**[1:23:22-1:23:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:23:22):**  think what they're called. I can see them. I can't think what they're called.  It happens to me.  Yeah. I'm in an airhead, man. I'm pretty sure I have ADHD. So it's like trying to keep Mac  
**[1:23:34-1:23:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:23:34):**  focused is hard. My wife says I can laser down and she's amazed at what I can do. I say, I feel  so scatterbrained. How do I explain it? It's like taking a jar of marbles and shaking around all  the time in my head and trying to pick out the one to pull the thought from. So it's like all  
**[1:23:50-1:24:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:23:50):**  the time. I don't know how to tell you this, but you probably are ADHD and that's okay.  For sure. The world is made up of all kinds of different minds.  Mine is definitely not one of the good ones.  
**[1:24:07-1:24:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:24:07):**  Good and bad is a different perspective. And that's not even important. It's yours. It's the  one you have. You just have to, you know, we just have to learn how to use the tool that's in our  head a little bit better sometimes and how to harness its power. Yeah, like I said, Ray and I,  
**[1:24:23-1:24:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:24:23):**  when we're on the same plane, it's hard to keep a consistent conversation. We're like everywhere.  Like anytime me and him do anything together, we're like bouncing around and we go back to  step one and we go back. We go to step eight and we go back to step two and it's then we forget.  
**[1:24:37-1:24:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:24:37):**  We did step once. We go back to step one. Just make sure we did step one. It's a mess. But we  enjoy each other and you know, Ray's and I's conversations, they are normally about 30 minutes  long and what we originally called each other about, we never actually get to. Then we get  
**[1:24:52-1:25:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:24:52):**  another phone call after. Yeah, we make another phone call after off the phone to ask them what  we're supposed to ask them the first time. That's happened multiple times.  I know how that feels. I feel personally attacked right now.  
**[1:25:06-1:25:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:25:06):**  It's bad man. It's really bad. Is there anything that you want to know more about my farm or how I  raise things or is there anything else that you want to get out there that other people can hear?  I don't do podcasts at all. I actually turn down a few.  
**[1:25:28-1:25:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:25:28):**  I do this every week in Runway Mouth. Is there anything you want people to know?  I mean, anything specifically that you narrow me down on. Like I said,  that marbles in the jar shaking is what I'm dealing with.  
**[1:25:42-1:26:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:25:42):**  And I feel that. I intensely feel that. Some days more than others.  Here's all my kids. They just stepped in here. It's okay, buddy. Let me just step out here.  We're at three with number four baking. Oh, wow. Congratulations.  
**[1:26:03-1:26:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:26:03):**  No, it's crazy. It's absolutely crazy around here. I always thought about I got like 25 kids.  So it's absolutely insane. If they're like you, it probably feels like 25.  Yeah, they are actually my son is very much like me, except he's smarter than I am. So like he  
**[1:26:22-1:26:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:26:22):**  uh, he  chasing me. They my wife's another room laughing. Did you hear? No, but my, my son's a lot like me.  He's just kind of like bounced around everywhere and and except he is really physically gifted,  
**[1:26:38-1:26:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:26:38):**  and he's gonna be taller than me. And also, he he ranked 90. He was in the 90 seconds percentile  for academics in grade. And so he's reading like a sixth grade reading level. So he's really,  really sharp. I don't know where he got that from. But um, yeah, he's a he's he's super smart. He's  
**[1:26:55-1:27:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:26:55):**  really athletic. It's, he's it's different. He's mine's like mine. It's just that everything's  focused and he's better everything than I am. So that's what you want. Yeah, I guess I don't know.  He's Yeah, it's it's it's it's a lot. Two girls. Emma and Evie. Emma is, is three. And so  
**[1:27:19-1:27:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:27:19):**  she is in that still terrible to age. I think it should be called terrible threes. Because you  know, if she doesn't get away, it's a big screen fest. And we got to go over like, hey, Emma,  is the reason why you can't punch your sister in the face. And then the little, the littlest one,  
**[1:27:36-1:27:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:27:36):**  little fat one Evie. He is our eater. So whenever big brother and little sister don't either,  or and big sister don't eat their food, she eats their food. She's also loves our pigs. So we got  three cooney coon pigs on the farm. She loves the pigs. She loves all the power of many hundred  
**[1:27:53-1:28:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:27:53):**  chickens we have. I don't even know how many chickens we have. It's insane. She loves all the  ducks. She is. She's my little farm girl. And she and Emma, the three year old she likes to go with  me anytime I go in the forler every time I fire the forler. Daddy, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go and  
**[1:28:06-1:28:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:28:06):**  then about two minutes in, she's like, are we gonna go home? Is it almost time to go home? I'm like,  yeah, we'll be done here in a little bit. So 25 minutes later, I take her back home and then she  didn't have very fun. Mom, Kayla goes, you have very much fun. She goes, No, not really. It's  
**[1:28:18-1:28:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:28:18):**  like, Oh, okay. Well, she always wants to go though. So that's what I deal with every single  day. But that's all right. It's great being a family farm, you know?  You get to spend all the time in the world with your kids.  
**[1:28:29-1:28:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:28:29):**  Yep, yep. And raise the kids that you know, the way that you know, you want to raise them,  it's pretty great. Try to do the best you can as a parent, man. Being a parent is probably  been my hardest job ever. It is. It's tough. Well, if you're about ready to get out of here,  
**[1:28:43-1:29:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:28:43):**  I'll let you go. CK, you got anything? I was just wondering if, um, are you doing a lot of  consulting for others? I remember last time we had this conversation, you're like, I'm getting  offers. I don't know what I want to do. Are you doing? Yes. I turned down. I turned down  
**[1:29:01-1:29:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:29:01):**  all the offers I got. Yeah. I've also, yeah. Also turned down some, uh, also turned down some  label offers, I guess you could say I've turned those down too, as of right now. Um,  I just, I don't know where my niche is right now, but I don't think it's with  
**[1:29:18-1:29:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:29:18):**  a big company or my eyes big. I think that is, would rather focus, like you guys said,  on my family, on my farm, on my other enterprise we got going on. Yeah. Real estate trucks,  semi's. I've got plenty to do. And so, uh, just, uh, yeah, I don't know. Yeah. I mean,  
**[1:29:39-1:29:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:29:39):**  I guess, does that answer your question? I think I don't think I'm going to do consulting now.  If you buy cover crop seed off me, you're going to get a 30 minute lecture on soul health. That's  just how it works. Are they buying the health lecture and getting free seed? Yeah, that's what  
**[1:29:57-1:30:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:29:57):**  it should be. But, um, no, you know, if you call me and the first, one of the first things that  your mouth is, Hey, I heard the cover crop guy, there's this NRCS program that I'm involved in  click. That's the reason why you've got the click because I don't have time to deal with someone  
**[1:30:12-1:30:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:30:12):**  that just wants to hand out. That's not worth my time. And I'm not worth the seed sale in my  opinion. So done that to quite a few farmers and pissed off by a few people. But you know, if,  like I said, if you come into a conversation about wanting to just don't care what the cover crop is,  
**[1:30:27-1:30:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:30:27):**  and you just want to get the $40 an acre, I'm not really about that. And I'm not gonna take the time  with you. You can go buy a seat off somebody else. So it's fair enough. Draw a hard line there.  Good. All right. So somebody wants to buy seed from you, get a hold of you,  
**[1:30:45-1:31:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:30:45):**  Cindy hate mail. Where do they need to go? Uh, easiest way to contact me is my cell phone. I've  got it on me seven days a week. I get 90 to 100 calls a day. So be patient, I will get back with  you. And my phone number is 417-660-9207. Again, that's 417-660-9207. And you can also add me on  
**[1:31:12-1:31:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:31:12):**  Facebook if you want to follow me on social media. Facebook is the only one I really got time for.  Um, and my name is spelled M-A-C-A-U-L-E-Y. And my last name is Kincaid, K-I-N-C-A-I-D. So you can  add me on Facebook. I've got 3000 some people my face, but I think maybe I don't know more. But I  
**[1:31:34-1:31:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:31:34):**  will I promise I will get back with you if you call me I do not answer because I just funnel  through a lot of stuff every day. Um, when you have as much going on as I have going on, and you  have all the contacts I have with the cover crop seed thing and the soil health thing and the  
**[1:31:52-1:32:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:31:52):**  trucking company and then some tenants in the family and other farmers around the area needing  help every single day with questions on a girl. It gets a little swamp sometimes. So imagine,  I imagine I do get back. I do. I really do. I feel like I get back with everyone. And if I don't,  
**[1:32:13-1:32:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:32:13):**  I'm sorry. Well, I'm gonna make sure we'll have a link to your Facebook profile in the show notes,  but I'm not going to put your phone number in there. Unless you really, really want me to.  So if you guys missed his phone number about two minutes ago, just go back two minutes and listen  
**[1:32:33-1:32:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:32:33):**  and write it down. That's about all I got to tell you. Because I don't know, I feel like if I put it  in the show notes, then you know, all the Google bots and all the Russian spy bots, they'll get  that number. And instead of getting 100 calls a day from people that actually want knowledge from  
**[1:32:47-1:33:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:32:47):**  you'll be getting 1000 calls a day for your car's extended warranty. Oh, hey, Brian, I got a funny  story for you. You got about five seconds or five minutes if you want to hear it. Yeah, let's lay it  on us. Let's get out of here. Okay, not really funny, but I guess kind of a one of those eye  
**[1:33:03-1:33:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:33:03):**  opening moments. Um, I was helping a farmer plant beans, who needed help, and running his equipment,  because I don't know, I guess I need something to do. And drilling beans, and they were treated  with saltro, which is the sudden death center syndrome treatment. Come to find out Mac is alert  
**[1:33:21-1:33:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:33:21):**  to that. So when Mac is completely coded in that, and goes home that night, and takes a shower and  salt is activated by water. I squalled up like a tick quickly. That's not cool. And no, and I don't  have insurance, stupid Mac. And so I went to hospital for 30 minutes, but I told him I said,  
**[1:33:44-1:34:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:33:44):**  Hey, it's wheat harvest. I need to get going. Give me some Benadryl and shoot me with a steroid,  and I'm gonna get going. So I was there for 30 minutes, and it cost me $2140. So all I have to  say is, whatever you do, stay out of the ER. That's all I'm saying. Even if you have insurance,  
**[1:34:02-1:34:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:34:02):**  it can add up really, really fast. Crazy, man. Well, hey, Brian, thank you so much for having  me. And I really appreciate it. Ck, thank you for putting up with me, guys. It's been a blast. Mac,  as always, it's a fun, fast conversation. With you, it's kind of like trying to hang on to a fire  
**[1:34:20-1:34:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:34:20):**  hose. And I always enjoy the challenge. I always enjoy you and your energy, Mac.  Thanks, man. I appreciate you. This episode has been sponsored by C90  Ocean Minerals. Visit c90.com to find a distributor near you or call to request a quote today. That's  
**[1:34:37-1:35:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/80-Macauley-Kincaid-The-Frog-Donkey-Horn-e1n7j3s#t=1:34:37):**  s e a dash nine zero dot com. And don't forget to mention that Ranching Reboot sent you. Have a  great week, y'all. Alright, guys, that's it. That's it for us right here. Go enjoy your week. Bye.  