---
title: 82 Nalick Trupp Eskimo Libertarian
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2022-09-19)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:00:00):**  Hello and welcome back. I'm grateful that so many of you keep coming back week after week.  This episode is sponsored by C90 Ocean Minerals, nature's most complete trace mineral salt and the one I feed to my herd.  Support for this episode also provided by our generous patrons on patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher.  
**[0:00:17-0:00:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:00:17):**  New patrons this month, Leah, Ben N, Matthew and Valerie. Thank you so much for your support.  You can join them today and check out all the sweet merch rewards available for my top tier supporters on patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher.  My awesome sponsors at C90 sent me a huge box of sampler sized products, way more than we can ever use here at the house.  
**[0:00:39-0:00:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:00:39):**  So what I'm going to do is I'm going to give away two C90 swag packs.  We're going to give away one on my patreon page for my patrons and one in the ranching reboot paddock or private facebook group.  Check my link tree for a link to both of those places.  
**[0:00:55-0:01:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:00:55):**  And don't forget about the soil health events calendar. You can find that at Kansas soil health dot org forward slash events or check to show notes for link.  All right. Got to pay some bills. If you haven't heard about anchor by Spotify, it's the easiest way to make a podcast with everything you need all in one place.  Let me explain. Anchor has all the tools that allow you to record and edit your podcast right from your phone or your computer.  
**[0:01:19-0:01:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:01:19):**  When hosting on anchor, you can distribute your podcast on listening platforms such as Spotify, apple podcast, Google and more.  And it's super easy. It's everything you need to make a podcast in one place. And best of all, anchor is totally free.  Download the anchor app or go to anchor dot FM to get started today.  
**[0:01:50-0:02:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:01:50):**  Every once in a while, I do that wrong and I press record this to the cloud and it screws up the recording a little bit.  So today, and believe it or not, I've actually instead of hitting the record button, which is right down there in the middle of the screen,  I've gone over there all the way to the right corner and clicked in meeting when I meant to hit record.  
**[0:02:10-0:02:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:02:10):**  That's kind of embarrassing when you start off shaking everybody off. So, yeah. Well, thanks for doing us.  It's it's nice to finally meet face to face. And you are Eskimo libertarian on all forms of social media.  Yes, that's correct. Yeah. So it's 2022 and I don't want to offend anybody is is Eskimo not an offensive term anymore.  
**[0:02:36-0:03:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:02:36):**  So that was more of like a Canadian thing of like Eskimo being offensive and they prefer the term in you it appear in Alaska.  It's widely accepted and there's actually multiple different tribes of Eskimo so like I'm you pick Eskimo, and there's also a new Piaq.  So there's like three main groups of you pick a new Piaq and inuit. And so when people are like, don't you mean anyway I'm like well I'm not even part of the Inuit tribe.  
**[0:03:03-0:03:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:03:03):**  Part of the Yupik tribe so that would be like if I went to lower 48, and I said, you know, you can't say indigenous or Native American, you have to say Cherokee, and you know, people from other tribes are going to be like well that's not what tribe or from.  So, it's, it's widely accepted up here, there's a lot of myths out there to saying like it means raw meat eater, or, you know, other forms I've heard so many different stories of what it means and the actual origins of Eskimo is, it's from the Algonquians  and it means someone who laces up their snowshoes.  
**[0:03:38-0:04:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:03:38):**  Interesting. Interesting. And then, let's see the Algonquin people they were from the American North East, like New England area. Yeah. Okay.  Interesting, interesting how that word got applied, you know, all the way across the Arctic. Yeah, for sure.  But I suppose you know when a lot of European explorers came up, you know, just like they didn't really make any distinctions between the people of the plains or you know the Mountain West they probably didn't make very many distinctions amongst the people  
**[0:04:06-0:04:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:04:06):**  of the north.  Yeah, exactly. And like that us folks along the north also look pretty similar to like a lot of our facial features and stuff it's actually thought that there were two waves of people that came across the land bridge of Alaska and Russia there.  And like the first group went down into lower 48 and then the second group which is like my group, we actually have features that are very much more similar to like the Asian folks. And so, we're believed to be the second later group that went across the land bridge.  
**[0:04:41-0:05:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:04:41):**  I think I've heard that before and you know that kind of makes sense.  So, what part of Alaska, are you from and is that where the Yupik tribe is from?  So I'm actually not living in that tribe debate so the Yupik tribe is more on like the west coast southern west coast area so like if this is Alaska, it's like this big hump right here.  
**[0:05:03-0:05:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:05:03):**  And so I'm in the Mat-Su Valley which is like an hour north of Anchorage, and that's where I was born or yeah born and raised, live here currently, but I do visit my family and whatnot back in the home village of Eke.  What was the name of the home village? Eke?  Yeah, so the real name of the village is Ekevikjoyak, but now a lot of people can say it or spell it so it's just Eke.  
**[0:05:33-0:05:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:05:33):**  So when we get done, I'm going to go find that on a map.  Yes, E-K Alaska.  E-K Alaska.  
**[0:05:40-0:05:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:05:40):**  Okay, got it. I will.  It's a real thing.  I believe you. I mean there's a hell Michigan, there's a North Pole, Colorado.  
**[0:05:48-0:05:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:05:48):**  Right.  There's a Miami, Oklahoma and a Miami, Kansas.  Strange things happen.  
**[0:05:55-0:06:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:05:55):**  So, really what I want to know, because I've never really actually met anybody from Alaska. I mean, I know a couple people kind of in passing but I never actually had a chance to sit down and talk to anybody, much less a native Alaska.  So what I want to know about is, is your native food culture.  Yeah.  
**[0:06:15-0:06:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:06:15):**  Yeah, I can speak mainly to the Yupik tribe on that stuff but it's a lot of stuff from the ocean, a lot of seafood.  There is some, like, we have caribou up here. And so for folks that don't know what caribou is, there's reindeer and caribou, and people know what reindeer are. Those are domesticated caribou.  Yeah, they call Santa's sleigh.  
**[0:06:41-0:07:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:06:41):**  Yeah.  And fun fact. So during that time of year, the males don't have antlers during that time, only the females do.  And so all of Santa's reindeer are female, if they have the antlers, because both males and females have antlers when it comes to caribou and reindeer.  
**[0:07:00-0:07:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:07:00):**  That'll probably make a few people upset.  Yep, Rudolph is a womanly. So, anyways.  Yeah, so I don't know how to like go into like all the different types of food culture that we have.  
**[0:07:17-0:07:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:07:17):**  Okay, so this time of year, you know, late summer coming into fall, you guys are probably stocking up on fish.  Yeah, so we kind of finished up most of our fishing by this time, me and my husband do as much as we can to do like subsistence hunting, fishing and gathering.  So we finished up our salmon, a lot of them are red salmon up here in Alaska, we have five different types of salmon, you have.  
**[0:07:47-0:08:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:07:47):**  Like chum and pinks and silvers, kings and reds. And so most of what we have are reds, that's mostly what we got a lot of people know reds as sockeye.  Okay, and so those are all cut up filleted in the freezer.  We just got done berry picking last weekend so a lot of the berries are in season, fall is starting, like all the colors are changing it's really nice and chill it's like 40 to 50 degrees.  
**[0:08:20-0:08:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:08:20):**  So we're out there berry picking we got blueberries but um, we also have a lot of different other types of berries.  We have this thing called a salmon berry and that's where we got a lot of like our vitamin C in the area it's like this orange berry that looks almost like a raspberry and it's very tart citrusy sort of flavor.  Interesting. Yeah, and crowberries which is our own version of blackberries are really small black bead looking berries. So, yeah, gathered up those up those are in the freezer.  
**[0:08:54-0:09:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:08:54):**  We used to make a good up from them, which is kind of our own version of Eskimo ice cream. Okay.  Traditionally it was used like you add a bunch of seal oil you whip it up with your hand, and then you throw berries in and you freeze it.  Some tribes would actually add some sort of white fish into it too, and some fish oil. Whip it all up, and it was like our own version of ice cream, but now they use Crisco they don't use seal oil.  
**[0:09:24-0:09:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:09:24):**  Some folks are very traditional will.  Doing that with Crisco sounds like sounds horrible. Actually, you add enough sugar it's really good actually.  That's, that's food science in a nutshell, add enough sugar and they'll eat anything. Right. So lots of fat, lots of sugar, and some berries for flavor and it's really good.  
**[0:09:50-0:10:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:09:50):**  But anyways, moose hunting is starting, but for bow hunting, and then rifle will be soon. And so moose and caribou will be ramping up pretty soon.  Okay.  Down here in the lower 48 we have seasons for things like you know you, you can only hunt white tail deer with a, you know, with a bow during you know these dates.  
**[0:10:13-0:10:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:10:13):**  I'm sure it's like that for you know if I wanted to come up there to Alaska and hunt but since you're a subsistence hunter, do they have different rules for you guys.  It depends on where we are so we have different. I mean, Alaska is very fast first off there's always a season going on somewhere. Right.  But there are areas where it depends about like the federal subsistence board and then the criteria are much more loose. So, depending if you are considered a federally subsistence hunter whatever.  
**[0:10:48-0:11:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:10:48):**  Some of these areas, like, oh, you can get like 10 caribou a day. And it's caribou is a pretty big animal and these people are way out there, there are no grocery stores and so these are true subsistence hunters and they're not getting 10 caribou a day.  So it's a little past subsistence but you know, you can make an argument that, you know, there's 150 people in my extended family or clan and you know we're going to take these 10 caribou and it's going to feed us for the year.  Right, exactly. So it's.  
**[0:11:24-0:12:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:11:24):**  Again, these places are way out there, you can only get there by a bush plane. And so it depends on where you are in my area, it's a little more urban Anchorage is just an hour away actually.  It's much more restrictive in my area and the surrounding units. So, right, because there's, there's more people there. And I see if I, the Mat-Su Valley, that's where most of Alaska, that's where not most of that's where quite a bit of Alaska's  produce farming is right. Yeah, actually. And so, the Mat-Su Valley was actually started by the New Deal they brought up farmers from Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin, to start farming up here in homesteading.  
**[0:12:10-0:12:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:12:10):**  Okay. What do they grow?  So, we do have a lot of potatoes like Yukon Golds.  I can imagine potatoes do well. Yes, exactly. And I think when you look at like gardening and whatnot we're level eight or something or like, there's not a lot of stuff that like can grow up here.  
**[0:12:32-0:13:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:12:32):**  I saw a chart of like what can grow up here, a lot of vegetables but what's interesting about our growing up here is the soil is fairly virgin compared to the lower 48.  So, we've had glaciers come through here and deposit a bunch of minerals, so like relatively when you look at the geography and whatnot it's fairly new land up here.  So lots of vegetables and then not only that during the growing season, the sun is out like almost 24 seven so these things grow massive we have some world record size cabbage and green beans.  
**[0:13:09-0:13:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:13:09):**  People grow sunflowers up here.  So lots of like vegetables and flowers grow. Oh, peonies is another big one or when the larger imports are exports of peonies and what's also great is our peonies bloom later than the lower 48 peonies so it extends that peony season.  That's, that's probably something that not very many people know about Alaska is export peonies to the lower 48 that's, I guess, and it makes sense you know the crops you're kind of describing cool season crops that, that have a fairly short growing window  
**[0:13:48-0:14:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:13:48):**  that can tolerate a lot of cold.  Yeah, pretty much, but I mean the stuff that does grow up here man they are massive I love going to the Alaska State Fair and see, oh yeah pumpkins that's another one they have massive pumpkins but just seeing all the massive vegetables that we have  and they have the list of the world records for each one and seeing how close they are to it because they're competitive with world record size.  
**[0:14:13-0:14:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:14:13):**  Oh, I can imagine.  So what, what are food prices like I've always heard that they're high, and you know when you, when you see ads for like, you know, Taco Bell or Domino's they say prices may be slightly higher in Alaska and Hawaii.  How much is that slightly higher because I've heard of horror stories from three or four years ago of a gallon of milk being like eight bucks when it was, you know, 250 or $3 down here.  
**[0:14:39-0:15:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:14:39):**  Yes, it is very expensive up here so here, like, where I am right here.  It's definitely more expensive than lower 48, you can expect your grocery bill to be twice as much.  But it's not as bad as out in the villages, where that's where you're going to hear those extremely horror story stuff that goes viral on social media like paying 1015 bucks for a gallon of milk, more, you know, out there because first off it has to ship  
**[0:15:13-0:15:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:15:13):**  out to Anchorage, and then it's got to ship out to the villages, and it's just, it's not like Alaska's got a well developed network of interstate highways that trucks can pass down at 75 miles an hour right like exactly want to haul a bunch,  like, probably the average food delivery to your hometown out there and eek is loaded on a fairly small Cessna single engine and flown out there.  That's not necessarily the most economical mode of transportation.  
**[0:15:44-0:16:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:15:44):**  Right, yeah so that or a barge can actually get to our village, because it's close enough to the shore, but even still, it's, we have things working against us to like the Jones Act and whatnot and that causes things to be much more expensive, but, okay,  tell us what the Jones Act is and why it's a bad thing for you.  So, the Jones Act was made in like 1910 1911 way back. And essentially what it is that the part that affects us is that when things are being shipped from point A to point B, and the US, including Guam and Puerto Rico, and Hawaii, and Hawaii, yeah.  
**[0:16:28-0:17:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:16:28):**  It has to be shipped on American made ships that are captained by Americans how like wave the American flag, you can't use anything else. And because of that lack of competition, we are required to use these certain vessels.  It is cause these prices to quite, you know, inflate, and they without the competition they haven't tried to make the ships any better either, because we're going to be using them anyways they don't have any incentives become better.  And that's also why we have so much trucking in the US is because it's less expensive to use the trucking however it could be far less expensive to use the shipping if we got rid of the Jones Act and, you know, added that extra competition and increase  
**[0:17:18-0:17:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:17:18):**  the efficiency and whatnot.  I remember something within the last couple of years that basis, like Congress had to go in and like specifically pass a carve out for for a part of the Jones Act to do some disaster relief, so other other ships could come in to move some cargo do disaster  relief.  
**[0:17:37-0:18:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:17:37):**  Yeah, there's been a couple of different ones especially like with drought happening in California, and we're seeing, we're starting to see it in other states to with drought, and the best way to ship all that water is like they fill up this big bladder  and floated across the ocean you know and of course they're talking it along.  And freshwater floats on top of the ocean because the ocean salt water.  
**[0:18:02-0:18:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:18:02):**  And so, I have heard for that.  I don't know what else specifically was used for but yeah it has been brought up multiple times when there are disasters or mass amounts of things need to be shipped, and they're like, Oh, we're running into this is actually making it very expensive are  very difficult to do so.  
**[0:18:24-0:18:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:18:24):**  I think you're right it was like 1910 1912 somewhere around there, and it was so long ago that, like the original intent of the law is is gone and it's not even a thing anymore is outdated, but like there's only one thing more.  There's nothing more permanent than a temporary government program.  Exactly. And not only that something else that's interesting is Alaska wasn't even a state, Hawaii wasn't even a state in 1910.  
**[0:18:55-0:19:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:18:55):**  So, now we're being affected by something that its intention was meant for, you know, the few states that we had not the now that we've spread across here.  It's affecting us still.  I never thought of that.  
**[0:19:11-0:19:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:19:11):**  That never occurred to me it was 1946 48.  I think it's 49.  I know, 19.  
**[0:19:24-0:19:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:19:24):**  I should know this.  Oh my gosh, it's gonna bother me.  I know that. Yes, yes.  
**[0:19:35-0:19:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:19:35):**  It's okay I get caught out without knowing effect every once in a while. There we go.  59.  Wow.  
**[0:19:44-0:20:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:19:44):**  Yeah, now that long ago.  You know we we have a strange perception of time, like.  So where I live this area was settled in the 1880s 1890s. It was opened up for Homestead Act, like this was this is all Homestead Act settled land.  
**[0:20:00-0:20:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:20:00):**  And I lived in Norfolk, Virginia, for a little over eight years almost nine years while I was in the Navy. And, you know, you're there you're around Jamestown and Smithfield and Williamsburg you know all the really really old places you know that have three  400 years of history. I had a friend that bought a house that was 175 years old.  Okay, cool. I come back to here and things are, you know, if something's 100 years old, it's old, like it's been there a long time.  
**[0:20:31-0:20:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:20:31):**  And just a few weeks ago probably.  Oh, I don't know, like six or eight episodes ago as the podcast goes we talked to my friend Katie up in core Wyoming. And so that's like West Central Wyoming, and we're core is it's kind of in a bowl of a couple mountain ranges.  And they didn't even get telephones and electricity in the valley until 1960.  
**[0:20:55-0:21:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:20:55):**  And that's in the lower 48.  Oh, yeah. Okay, yeah, it's kind of interesting.  So the village that my family is from, they didn't get into our plumbing until just a few years ago.  
**[0:21:11-0:21:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:21:11):**  Okay.  We don't need to talk about what life's like in Alaska without indoor plumbing in January because I imagine it's not too pleasant.  It's not the most fun when you have to go to the river, get water and all that stuff.  
**[0:21:30-0:21:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:21:30):**  Yeah. Is that what it's still like in EEC? Do you guys still have to get your own water?  It seems like most places, especially the places with elders have faucets, and they're able to get water that way, but I don't know if all houses have that yet.  It's just very recently that they have like indoor plumbing and showers and whatnot.  
**[0:21:54-0:22:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:21:54):**  Okay.  You threw out a term earlier, you said federal subsistence hunter, and that sounds like an official government like designation or like category.  So what exactly is that?  
**[0:22:12-0:22:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:22:12):**  So 60% of Alaska is owned by the federal government, and it's like owned, managed by the federal government.  And that's a lot of land. People don't realize how big Alaska is.  If you put Alaska on top of like the lower 48, we would take up two thirds of the lower 48.  
**[0:22:30-0:23:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:22:30):**  And so 60% of our state is managed by the federal government, which is a lot.  So they have this thing called the Federal Subsistence Board, and they have their own definition of like if you are a subsistence hunter in these areas, and these areas are like millions of acres big, and there's multiple regions of it.  Then you fall under the Federal Subsistence Board and lately it's been pretty problematic. There have been people on the board that have been shutting down whole units to hunting like, oh, there's not enough sheep so we're gonna shut down you know sheep hunting  
**[0:23:10-0:23:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:23:10):**  here, and we have doll sheep up here. So those are the ones with like the big horns that circle around.  Are they delicious.  They're very hard to get. Maybe that's why they're delicious. It's, it's very difficult to get to those ones.  
**[0:23:26-0:24:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:23:26):**  So, there's been multiple times that they're shutting down millions of acres, even though like just lately there was a section that they closed down to sheep hunting, even though that they got 20 people are 22 people to testify like, no, we shouldn't close down  this hunting, and there were two people that are like, I'm not seeing any sheep, we should close it down. So they closed it down, and they're allowing people like one or two individuals in each group to shut down hunting and the entire like millions of acres.  And so lately it's been abused by by that so it's been quite frustrating actually. I can't imagine that that is a non elected official that's accountable to nobody.  
**[0:24:13-0:24:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:24:13):**  Yeah, I don't know the exact workings of it yet, but I plan to look more into it because this was brought up by my husband, and he's, you know, frustrated about people like there's even a section close to here where it's a similar story they close down  moose hunting and caribou hunting.  The guy was saying oh there's too much traffic coming through here it's scaring all the animals away, and they shut down massive amounts I mean this place is like the size of Wisconsin that they shut down.  
**[0:24:43-0:25:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:24:43):**  So, it's, it's been an issue up here and I plan to look more into it, but it's something that people don't quite realize is how much of Alaska is regulated by DC yet we are thousands of miles away from DC.  So it's kind of hard to go protest at the Capitol.  Yeah, I kind of understand what it's like you know feeling like you're a long way from the Capitol that you're probably three or four times as far as I am so I, and I imagine your situation with Juno is, is kind of the same too because Juno is a totally different  
**[0:25:19-0:25:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:25:19):**  environment. You know, let's talk later climate totally different politically, and probably totally different culturally, and it seems like Juno is just down in this little itty bitty area, way off in the corner and then there's this whole big other  area of Alaska to explore.  And it's the only way to get there is by boat or by plane, you can't drive there. And it's literally in the bottom right corner of Alaska it's really close to Seattle actually. And, and there's the rest of Alaska.  
**[0:25:52-0:26:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:25:52):**  So it's quite a journey to get there I've actually been at you know before, so I had a flight there when I was in high school to play high school soccer against the junior high school team.  Well, tell me about that a little bit high school sports.  Like, you guys just like eight of you just hop on a Cessna and fly halfway across the state to play soccer.  
**[0:26:15-0:26:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:26:15):**  Practically yeah we were in a little jet, and our team took up most of the plane, we might as well chartered a plane. And yeah we flew there and played a couple of games. So we played them twice.  And then we flew back. But we had to do that two years and then another two years they had to fly to us, and we would play games, all the way in Juneau. We also had to drive all the way to Fairbanks, which is like a six hour drive.  And we play that like an easy six hour drive through.  
**[0:26:48-0:27:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:26:48):**  And so, I mean, it's never easy being a bus with six other ladies that are super hormonal in high school.  Much less than six hours down really awesome roads, I'm sure.  Yeah, it wasn't the worst road, but yeah, it was, we had to travel and then we had to drive down to like Saldana and that's like a four hour, four and a half hour drive maybe five. Yeah, so we had to travel far and wide, but it's not as bad as like  
**[0:27:20-0:27:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:27:20):**  out in the villages, you have to like take snow machines.  You folks call out snowmobiles we call them snow machines or snow goes.  The whole village will get together and drive their snow machines to the neighboring villages, so for different games.  
**[0:27:38-0:28:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:27:38):**  I kind of want to know more about that but it's probably one of those things you just kind of have to experience and see, you know, like, oh, it's, you know, the middle of December we're gonna go hop on our snow machines and ride through the dark for 25 miles to go to this other  town and play basketball.  If you're ever interested ESPN actually did a 3030 show about basketball in rural Alaska because it's actually a really big thing out here so go check that out it's a, it's really well done.  
**[0:28:09-0:28:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:28:09):**  I'll have to see if I can't find that maybe on YouTube and throw a link in the show notes because that that could be really, it could be interesting diversion.  Right.  So, what's food like in the winter.  
**[0:28:24-0:28:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:28:24):**  So I do go out hunting during the winter. We have.  Oh, first off it's hard because it's really cold first off.  I'm talking negative  
**[0:28:38-0:29:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:28:38):**  negative 40 yeah negative 40 without the wind chill depends on where you go but when we go caribou hunting it. The wind is ripping through we're up on top of the mountain, it's like, negative 30 negative 40 at the worst, and.  It sucks you have to cover all of your skin so I'm like, like you only, I look like a ninja you only see eyes.  But yeah, you definitely want to cover all the skin that you can because it's going to be like frostbit and no time at all. We use really good gear.  
**[0:29:13-0:29:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:29:13):**  And a lot of the animals to they're changing colors so you see foxes and ptarmigan they're changing their color so that they blend in with the white.  I really like term again it's kind of like a.  What's funny is Alaska's brown.  
**[0:29:31-0:29:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:29:31):**  It's similar. Okay, there are different, they are different.  But ptarmigan is our state bird, and we're the only state that's allowed to hunt its own state bird.  They have like a body that nice big plump body and then a little tiny head. It'll kind of funny. But, and they're also really stupid.  
**[0:29:53-0:30:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:29:53):**  They'll stay there perfectly still until you're practically stepping on them and then they're like, you know, explode or whatever.  But, uh, yeah, going hunting for those.  We haven't done a lot of predator hunting so there's fox and wolves. I would like to do that at some point, just because their first really nice and I have family that can help me with sewing first and whatnot.  
**[0:30:21-0:30:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:30:21):**  There's probably not much of a market for first though is there.  There definitely is we even have this thing called for Rondi, and it's like before the idea to rod. Traditionally everyone came in traded their first and whatnot.  And because we have some probably have the more exotic type for so like sea otter and other types of otter wolves box, like Arctic Fox appear.  
**[0:30:51-0:31:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:30:51):**  And so those are really nice for is that people seek after especially like that sea otter out if you ever felt sea otter is the softest for you.  Like if you ever pet a chinchilla. That's trying to think of other things are similar it's the softest for you ever felt, and it's extremely warm if you look at the density of the hairs.  It's some of the most dense if not the most dense for that you can find. And so very highly valuable for and we also have a musk ox for that's woven into like a yarn they call it quivute.  
**[0:31:24-0:31:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:31:24):**  And it's the musk ox, that's a pretty large. That's a kind of a cow right thousand pound or so. Yeah, it's pretty big if you look at them they're like big beefy fluffy things with like curved horns and they sound like a dinosaur it's weird like I would  even it's like this guttural dinosaur sound it's crazy you'd have to look it up. I can't even mimic it.  But people do farm them up here.  
**[0:31:51-0:32:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:31:51):**  Okay.  They can be kind of domestic probably, they can be domesticated about as well as bison can be domesticated.  Essentially yeah but their fur is highly valuable. And so there is a musk ox farm just down the road from me actually so interesting.  
**[0:32:10-0:32:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:32:10):**  And then the other direction is the reindeer farm.  Introducing C90 Ocean Minerals. C90 offers complete nutrient support for today's farm and ranch. With over 90 minerals and trace elements in nature's perfect balance, C90 remineralizes soil, increases pasture quality and elevates the wellness of your herd.  Enjoy improved drought resistance, increased pasture protein and RFV values and the elimination of pink eye and foot and hoof rot.  
**[0:32:36-0:33:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:32:36):**  Originally discovered by Dr. Maynard Murray, C90 is the only product that meets his standards for sea energy agriculture including a living ocean source and elevated amounts of macro and trace elements.  Freshly created in the Sea of Cortez and OMRI certified, C90 is free from pollutants and contaminants including microplastics. Visit C90.com to learn more today.  That's S-E-A-9-0.com. C90 is available through distributors across the US including over 200 tractor supply locations. Click the link in the show notes to find the dealer nearest you.  
**[0:33:11-0:33:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:33:11):**  We are always looking to grow our network. Give us a call or email today and be sure to mention that Ranching Reboot sent you. Please check the show notes for all the contact information.  Now back to this week's episode.  Okay, so you mentioned the Iditarod Sled Dog Race. Now I know what that is because I'm a nerd and I just I'm a sponge for information.  
**[0:33:31-0:33:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:33:31):**  So what is the Iditarod Sled Dog Race for the people that don't know?  Yeah, so it is a 1049 mile race, a sled dog race that goes from Anchorage to Nome. And so a lot of people think that it has to do like it has to mimic the vaccine run or the serum run from Anchorage to Nome.  That's what I've heard.  
**[0:33:58-0:34:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:33:58):**  That is actually a myth and the people that developed the Iditarod, they didn't intend to do that. They intended to make 1000 mile race, and then they added 49 miles because we're the 49th state.  And it just happens to go from Anchorage to Nome.  Even though there are a lot of people do draw that distinction they're like no, that's not what it's from but it's like it's hard to not draw that conclusion.  
**[0:34:22-0:34:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:34:22):**  So, I don't know.  One of those things that's just such an incredibly strong coincidence. Right, exactly. And for those that don't know the serum run is like a Nome. There was a sickness that broke out they needed medicine, they could not fly anything in they couldn't  get any trains in nothing. And so they had pretty much like a relay of sled dogs and they each did sections, they took the serum from Anchorage to Nome and save the whole town knows like this big heroic thing and a lot of people think of Balto but  
**[0:34:58-0:35:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:34:58):**  actually the dog that saved everyone was Togo, and they changed it to Balto because Togo was the name of a Japanese admiral in World War Two, and you know, with propaganda and whatnot they, they changed the name.  Anyways, yeah, the Iditarod is a race. It's not a relay race like the vaccine run, you do the whole thing yourself. It's 1049 miles. Now how long, like the winner, does it in what like a couple of days?  Yeah, he does it in like 70, it takes like a week, I would say. I haven't been looking at times lately they've been getting faster and faster. So, a week to 10 days like not even not even the guys that are really pushing hard up front like some of these guys are out there for 10 days.  
**[0:35:54-0:36:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:35:54):**  In the bush, in the snow, mostly in the dark, with everything they need for them and their dogs on the sled.  There are checkpoints. So checkpoints where they can drop supplies and whatnot.  But they've got to keep at least a couple of days food with them, you know, for them and their dogs. Yeah, and water. Yeah, and they're hauling all of this crap 1049 miles across the Arctic. Yes, like, yeah, Kobe Bryant, go throw your ball.  
**[0:36:29-0:36:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:36:29):**  Right, yeah, it's insane what they do and a lot of people think that this is hard on the dogs but the thing is, these dogs they do work hard, but because they have a purpose and a job, and this is what they're designed to do there's some of the happiest dogs  you've ever met.  There's nothing happier than a dog doing the job that it's been taught to do.  
**[0:36:50-0:37:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:36:50):**  Yeah, they feel like they have a sense of purpose and it's actually been shown when dogs don't have a sense of purpose they get depressed.  So, actually, I had kind of interesting conversation the other night, I didn't really intend to tend to go this way, but we were talking about dogs.  And so like 150 years ago, before we had, you know, processed bag dog food. How many people would have had dogs 150, 200 years ago?  
**[0:37:18-0:37:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:37:18):**  Your average trades person probably would not have had a dog. The outdoorsman, the people that raised livestock, cared for livestock would probably have dogs.  And then the upper class may have dogs. Right?  True. I didn't even think of that. Yeah.  
**[0:37:37-0:37:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:37:37):**  And the, you know, part of this conversation I was thinking about, you know, preparing for this interview and I was thinking about, you know, how they do things up in, you know, northern Canada and Alaska.  You'll have a lot of sled dogs.  And sled dogs have been a part of native culture for a long time.  
**[0:37:56-0:38:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:37:56):**  And my theory is this, because there's a lot of animals up there that are good for, you know, they're good for hunting that are very rich in fat. So there's a cheap, there's an economical fuel source for sled dogs available up there and that's why a lot of the transportation in the north has been sled dogs.  Is that?  Do I have any that anywhere close to right?  
**[0:38:22-0:39:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:38:22):**  Yeah, I would say so. Um, yeah, it was convenient I mean being able to haul things. Another thing is we're very nomadic people. And so being able to haul stuff is very valuable.  And so being able to have a companion that can help haul your materials, you know, and like the elderly, and, you know, the pregnant and the small children and whatnot, is very valuable for a nomadic lifestyle.  Before the Plains Indians got the horse, they would use dogs and little travoys, like little, you know, just two little poles and a line dog.  
**[0:39:01-0:39:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:39:01):**  I mean, I can't imagine that, you know, a 40 or 50 pound dog would be able to pull a whole lot across the plains powered on a diet that they'd be able to get out here. I mean, certainly they wouldn't be as strong as, you know, one that's been raised on, you know, whale fat and seal meat for a long time.  Exactly. Yeah, our, our food is very rich, it's very like keto diet type, you know, a lot of protein, a lot of fat, a lot of fat. And it's kind of like I've actually tried the keto diet and actually really agreed with me and I felt great.  But I really like donuts and ice cream. So, it's difficult to say on it. But um, I know it's.  
**[0:39:44-0:40:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:39:44):**  And like earlier I had mentioned seal oil it's a very valuable part of the diet, a lot of energy stored in there.  And seal oil was used in a lot of different foods you could like dip your dried fish into it, dried meats like dried caribou into seal oil, you can whip it up and make your own like Eskimo ice cream as I mentioned, a Gouda.  Very valuable, and that was much more of our region we didn't have as much whaling in our tribe that's more of like Northern Yupik and Nupiak area, they would have more of the whaling but we had a lot of seal.  
**[0:40:21-0:40:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:40:21):**  And that's what we would do.  The last salmon to Sam it's really good.  Because where your people are from, they didn't have whales they had seals, the whales are farther up the coast right. Yeah, yeah, very rarely.  
**[0:40:35-0:40:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:40:35):**  I mean you hear of like a beluga, you know, those will hit like some of them.  Some of our areas and can actually get up the river a little easier but they're a smaller whale.  So how does, how would food preservation work without electricity.  
**[0:40:53-0:41:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:40:53):**  Well, there is a lot of cold curing. So, like there's this example where you cut up salmon, you know you cut it up and then you soak it in like a brine.  And then you bury it underground for a certain amount of time, and you cold cure it and it's similar process as how sushi is made. And so with that cold cure it then you take it back up, you know unravel it you clean out the bride so it's not so salty and whatnot.  And it's preserved like that. Another way is drying.  
**[0:41:25-0:41:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:41:25):**  You can dry stuff, you can smoke it.  And I mean the winter is a freezer as it is.  That helps a lot.  
**[0:41:37-0:42:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:41:37):**  I kind of almost wrote down the dumb question how do you keep your meat fresh in the winter that are like, oh, wait a minute, what's the average winter temperature in Alaska.  Exactly. That helps. But in order to get it to that point, a lot of drying cold curing is done. Now what we do, I mean we have like vacuum sealers.  I do have a family that still dries fish and I love dry fish like a salmon as a jerky, but it's very oily and I love it. I love that stuff.  
**[0:42:12-0:42:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:42:12):**  Did you ever have a moment of weakness and buy salmon from the grocery store.  Never, never, never, not even when I was in the lower 48 I did. Okay, great, but here. No, we are pretty good at our fishing. And so you're a wild caught girl, and you had some store bought.  How much of a difference did you notice. Oh, so much, the color. First off the color like so our salmon is very red and vibrant and just beautiful color, and then the store bought was like a pink.  
**[0:42:49-0:43:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:42:49):**  I don't know, looks sick in comparison, like you shouldn't be that color.  Also the taste like here the taste is just rich and you don't need any seasoning, you don't need tartar sauce it's just, it's good.  And then the store bought stuff I'm like, oh, that's why they use tartar sauce or that's why they use seasoning. Like, it's bad.  
**[0:43:13-0:43:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:43:13):**  Cover it up with ketchup or something else sweet.  So, the flavor is just so much better and I also like feel good, you know, there's very in tune with like when I hunt and fish my own food how much better I feel compared to having store bought like either steaks or salmon or whatnot.  Okay, let's, let's chase that rabbit a little bit. Do you think that is that because of its more nutrient dense food, or because you have a more intimate connection with that food in your respect it because you're the one that harvested it.  
**[0:43:52-0:44:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:43:52):**  I think there is a mixture of both. If you look at like practices of farm salmon versus wild caught salmon and what their diets are. I mean I'm not a biologist by any means I'm actually just an engineer.  So, but, I mean, the fact that your food looks so different tastes so different. There's got to be a difference and like I also like the comparison of steak I don't normally eat beef, I eat caribou steak and moose steak.  And so that is something that agrees with my body a whole bunch more than like beef steak, even though like having a beef steak does taste good every once in a while.  
**[0:44:33-0:44:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:44:33):**  I was gonna ask you know you, you haven't mentioned eating any beef, and probably most of my listeners are primarily beef eaters and they're thinking about eating caribou and seal fat and they're going, oh, maybe.  I'm thinking about that rib eye later. Right.  So, what's been your experience with beef?  
**[0:44:54-0:45:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:44:54):**  Like, have you gotten any straight off a farm or you just mostly out of grocery store or restaurant.  I've gotten it off a farm, though I would, I would like to do that but I'm a little more tough up here.  So, most of my stuff has been from the grocery store and I'm sure most of your listeners are like cringing like, ah, that's why, you know, so I.  
**[0:45:16-0:45:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:45:16):**  But you eat bear so like they can suck it.  Right, I catch most of my food so there.  You probably hunt your own bear too so.  
**[0:45:26-0:45:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:45:26):**  Yeah, actually there's three bear pelts sitting over there. Awesome.  Yeah, yeah, nobody can give you any crap about my beef at the store if you're out hunting bear, I'm sorry, it's just that's, that's how it's going to work.  That's how it's going to be. That's good. I like that.  
**[0:45:43-0:46:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:45:43):**  So when is bear season.  So it depends, there are different types of bears that you can be getting so first off there will be spring bear bear that's freshly coming out of its hibernation cave or whatnot.  They haven't eaten a lot but their meat is very, very tender. And so that's a good bear to get.  
**[0:46:04-0:46:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:46:04):**  And you can either get black bear or brown bear at that point.  And then later on there's also Kodiak bear.  So that's a Kodiak grizzly. Okay, there's supposedly a difference between brown and grizzly again, I'm not a biologist, just a hunter.  
**[0:46:23-0:46:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:46:23):**  But it depends on where you go and their diet, oh my gosh those Kodiak grizzly so those things are massive and I can't even like emphasize enough how massive those animals are because they're nine feet.  Oh, they're huge, just.  Yeah, probably about that big if not bigger and then not only that they're just round and they look so cute. But I'm telling you they stand up and scream at you.  
**[0:46:47-0:47:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:46:47):**  Right, exactly. They're little cute round ears and they're all fluffy and they got big butts and whatever and just so cute but no they're absolutely terrifying.  Not really selling it well but they're terrifying.  And then later on in the year so kind of like closer to this time of year. I would still wait a little bit longer. When there are black bears that have been sitting in blueberry patches and been eating blue, nothing but blueberries for a few weeks.  
**[0:47:15-0:47:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:47:15):**  A blueberry bear is amazing, like it affects the flavor of the meat. Their fat is purple from the blueberries.  Yes, it's literally purple so you can like throw some fat, they have a lot of fat on them. So you take huge chunk of fat, throw it in the pan, get it all melted, and then you throw some slabs of meat on there, and you like fry it and its own fat and  it's blueberry fat. Oh, it's so good.  
**[0:47:44-0:48:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:47:44):**  You probably don't need to eat very much of that to keep you going for a couple of days. No, no, not at all. It's, and it's like, it's a type of foal where you're not feeling like bogged down and like, oh man, it's like you have good energy, and you feel warm, and you can go do things, you know.  Wow.  Yeah. So what do you hunt bear with? What do you take with you when you go hunt bear?  
**[0:48:12-0:48:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:48:12):**  So luckily it's, it's mainly my husband that's hunting.  I have a CVA cascade, and...  That's a muzzleloader?  
**[0:48:25-0:48:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:48:25):**  No, so this one isn't. I know CVA is known for their muzzleloaders, but this one isn't. So, which I was kind of surprised I want to actually add an outdoor banquet, the Alaska outdoor banquet.  So...  Still got powder though.  
**[0:48:41-0:49:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:48:41):**  No, no.  Yeah, so I was really, I don't know, I don't know if they're like branching into something and you know branching out of what they do currently and just trying this out. So anyways, my husband.  Oh man, what does he use? He keeps changing it up on me and, oh, and he's like, wouldn't it be nice if I got this round or if I got this gun and so I don't know which ones he's gotten lately. Scared to go look.  
**[0:49:11-0:49:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:49:11):**  Sounds like every other hunter I know.  Right, or I see a receipt and I'm like, did you go to Sportsman's? He's like, oh, no, that was last month. Oh, you went to Sportsman's last month. Oh, okay.  I kind of had to have an awkward conversation with my reader of the credit card statements not too long ago. I bought a mental health firearm for myself and neglected to mention it to her before the credit card statement showed up.  
**[0:49:40-0:49:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:49:40):**  She came and was like, what's this? I bought a gun.  Oh my gosh, I might have to share that with my husband. He would love that.  Mental health firearm purchase?  
**[0:49:53-0:50:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:49:53):**  Right, or it's like, oh, it's our anniversary. I got myself a gun.  I got this new one. So now you could carry this one of mine that you liked.  Right, it's a his and hers matching set. No, exactly.  
**[0:50:09-0:50:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:50:09):**  So I'm going to have to ask my husband more of what rounds he does.  He'll go out there, usually for the bears. I am more of the caribou. And I mean, I've gone moose hunting before, but it's been a few years.  So I'm a new mom, you know, and so juggling that and getting back into the hunting scene. I've been doing much more of the easier hunts lately.  
**[0:50:33-0:50:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:50:33):**  So fishing, fishing is easy to do with a baby.  So what's it like in the winter? So as we're recording this kind of, what is it, mid-August?  It'll be, I'm actually kind of ahead. I'm doing good. So it'll be like down into September by the time this one comes out.  
**[0:50:56-0:51:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:50:56):**  What's the daylight like? I mean, obviously days are getting shorter. Do you have full dark in Anchorage?  Not full dark, but the sun will like just barely make it above the horizon and just hover there and then go back down.  And it's not a lot. And so it's still pretty dark. It's not a full daylight light.  
**[0:51:20-0:51:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:51:20):**  It's kind of, if you aren't staying active, it can be very depressing.  So how do you, how do you guys fight that? You just go out and hunt all winter and fish? Yeah, we go out hunting.  We do a bunch of activities, whether it's cross-country skiing or snowshoeing. Lately, I've been doing a lot more snowshoeing because that's easier to do with a baby on the back.  
**[0:51:46-0:52:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:51:46):**  But we should be able to get more into skiing. I've seen people who cross-country ski with a baby on them.  I'm like, nope, that's not for me. That would be a little too difficult for me. Cross-country skiing is one of those activities that sounds and looks deceptively easy.  It's difficult. Luckily, I competed in high school, so I have some experience.  
**[0:52:08-0:52:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:52:08):**  But I still would not want to have a baby on me because I know of some of the crashes that I've had and that would not end up well.  Okay, you competed in cross-country skiing in high school. Yes.  I guess that makes complete sense because it'd probably be kind of hard to have a lot of track and field events in Alaska.  
**[0:52:31-0:52:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:52:31):**  I mean, that's in the fall or in the spring. But yeah, so there's cross-country running in the fall that a lot of folks did.  And then they went right into cross-country skiing and then they go into track.  That's what a lot of folks did. But I did cross-country running, cross-country skiing, and then soccer.  
**[0:52:50-0:53:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:52:50):**  Okay, now I got to know what other really weird winter sports do you all do up there?  It's also the NYO. Not weird, I guess. Not going to be weird, just uncommon.  Yeah, so we have the NYO, which is the Native Youth Olympics, and that is like actual traditional games and contests that different varying tribes had.  
**[0:53:12-0:53:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:53:12):**  And so there's this one-  You guys can tell me all about this. It sounds interesting.  Yeah, so there's this one where you suspend a ball and you have to jump up with both feet and hit it with both feet and land on your feet.  
**[0:53:27-0:53:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:53:27):**  And they try to increase the height of that ball. And so I think the record is like eight feet, the ball was.  And if you see these people jump, I mean, they're jumping, their feet go above their head and they still land.  And there's different variations of it, too. But yeah, that's like the two-foot high kick.  
**[0:53:47-0:54:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:53:47):**  There's this one where you start on the ground and you have to hold on to one of your feet.  And then the other foot hits the ball and you have to land on that same foot and your hand is on the ground.  And it kind of looks like you're in the crab position the whole time.  
**[0:54:02-0:54:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:54:02):**  But yeah, people will be hitting like six feet up in the air and doing practically like jumping up into a one handed handstand to reach their foot all the way to it.  It's crazy. You got to look this stuff up.  Yeah, Native Youth Olympics?  
**[0:54:18-0:54:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:54:18):**  Yep, either Native Youth Olympics or the adult version is the WEIO, the World Eskimo Indian Olympics.  W-E-I-O. That's a big salad of vowels that I just about did parse correctly.  That's OK. But yeah, that is something that is very unique up here.  
**[0:54:40-0:54:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:54:40):**  Very cool.  Couple of the things that I kind of had had written down here and, you know.  I will actually stay true to my word, if you don't want to talk about it, we can edit this out.  
**[0:54:53-0:55:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:54:53):**  But like the Indian Adoption Project and the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978.  Can you maybe unpack some of those and what they were, what they were supposed to do and how bad they are today?  Yeah, I can go into that. So firstly, the Indian Adoption Project.  
**[0:55:15-0:55:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:55:15):**  So that was something that was put forward by U.S. Congress and specifically written in the project.  They practically quoted that the purpose of this project is to take, they use the term Indian, Indian children and putting them in non-Indian homes.  They specifically wrote that out. That was the intention of the project.  
**[0:55:41-0:55:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:55:41):**  So basically they set the set up this criteria of when they could come in and take native children from their homes.  And it was fully. Yes. So they were there.  Like if you resisted, you went to prison type of thing. And pretty much so they came in.  
**[0:55:59-0:56:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:55:59):**  Some of the criteria included things like too many people in the home.  We'll see if you look at multiple different cultures.  A lot of people have homes that are filled with family that aren't just the nuclear family of mom, dad and children.  
**[0:56:13-0:56:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:56:13):**  They'll have aunts, uncles, multiple generations like grandma and grandpa, cousins and whatnot.  And that's normal for a lot of different cultures, including Native American cultures.  So someone would come in, see that there's multiple generations or too many people as they put it, and take the children.  
**[0:56:35-0:56:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:56:35):**  And that was a double standard if they saw native families with that, they would go in and take the children.  Another thing is indoor plumbing. If there is an indoor plumbing, they can take the children.  The thing is, when this was implemented in the 50s and 60s, there were a lot of like rural places that didn't have like indoor plumbing at that time.  
**[0:56:55-0:57:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:56:55):**  And even now in 2022, indoor plumbing is simply not practical in large parts of Alaska because you can't put a pipe in the dirt.  Yeah, it's very difficult. Not only like with permafrost and stuff, we also have earthquakes, and it's a very difficult engineering task to overcome.  So it costs a lot of money.  
**[0:57:18-0:57:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:57:18):**  And there were multiple like different folks like in farming communities during that time that didn't have like indoor plumbing, at least to the standards that they were talking about.  But if it was a native family, the indoor plumbing could take the children. So there are multiple different criteria like that where it was a double standard, vaguely written, like vaguely enough written that they could take any children they wanted,  and they took a lot of children by 19, I believe it was 63, I don't have my notes on me.  
**[0:57:50-0:58:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:57:50):**  One in four Native children were living away from their family. That's 25% of Native children away from their family.  It's an insane number.  And so these children were sold to predominantly white suburban families and how that happened too is... You just said sold.  
**[0:58:11-0:58:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:58:11):**  Yeah.  Like literally the government would confiscate them, confiscate the child, and then sell them with an exchange of currency to a white family.  Yes. Okay, I just wanted to make sure that we were crystal clear that that wasn't... Okay, go on. I'm sorry. Yeah, no, for sure. Like all the paperwork and fees and everything associated with being, you know, the adoption is going to the government and funding this program.  
**[0:58:41-0:59:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:58:41):**  So there was an exchange of currency.  And it's... I bet there's 300 million people living in America that don't know this crap was happening 70 years ago.  Exactly. And people, like people are still alive today that are victims of this, you know, and so like people that were like given to adopting families, and how they were able to be so successful like one of the reasons is the government made these  
**[0:59:10-0:59:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:59:10):**  ads in like good housekeeping magazines and whatnot that were predominantly going to white suburban neighborhoods saying that there are all these native children they need loving homes and they're the unwanted or the forgotten child and pulling at the heartstrings  of all these families and they're like yes we'll take in these children these poor poor children.  And that's how they were able to be so successful.  
**[0:59:39-1:00:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=0:59:39):**  So, that was the Indian adoption project and even still today.  Native children are four times more likely to be taken to go into the system, you know like foster and adoption and whatnot.  Then white children, it's still like, is that a national statistic you're quoting or just relax. Okay. That's a national statistic. And so that's still an issue today even though  
**[1:00:08-1:00:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:00:08):**  it was fun to place and that was the Indian Child Welfare Act. And so a lot of times in the news and whatnot they refer to it as a qua.  And so, that  essentially it made it harder to deem that a child need to be taken.  
**[1:00:28-1:00:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:00:28):**  And then also, if a child should be taken, there was a criteria, or there was a list of who the child can go to and you had to go down the list and so first off it was the child had to go to family.  And if that wasn't available.  The child had to go to another family that was within the same tribe. If that wasn't available. It had to go to a Native American family.  
**[1:00:52-1:01:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:00:52):**  Just in general, even if it's not from a different tribe.  And there's this part gets kind of if you like if the parent approves of a fostering parent that isn't part of that list, then it's okay. And there's ways to go around it kind of but this was so that Native children stayed within the community weren't  being sent away so far, and so predominantly non-native homes, so.  
**[1:01:25-1:01:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:01:25):**  Sounds like an efficient well run government program that accomplished its objectives.  Pretty much, it really did and so it's very sad seeing the residual effects of it. I'm part of the generation of Native Americans that are trying to reconnect with our culture and language values and whatnot.  So, we're definitely seeing much more of a shift of coming back and trying to relearn everything.  
**[1:01:57-1:02:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:01:57):**  Yeah, I think that's true in a lot of different ways. It almost seems like just generationally we've gotten kind of fed up with the current system and we all want to relearn some old ways.  You know, we want to relearn how to better live in harmony with our environment without completely destroying everything.  You know, there's some modern conveniences that are awful nice. Air conditioning for me, I'm sure like oil, heat for you all up there, you know, that makes life a lot more tolerable in our environments.  
**[1:02:32-1:03:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:02:32):**  But at the same time, we've got to maybe learn to live a little bit in a little bit better balance with the resources that are available to us and make better use.  Absolutely. So, we talked about beef earlier and like everybody's seen the show with the kilters. What was it called?  I forget. They're out by Homer and they have a cattle ranch.  
**[1:03:00-1:03:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:03:00):**  You know, it's really funny actually. So, I just got to say really quick. A lot of people are like, oh, have you seen this Alaskan show? And I'm like, no, I haven't seen any of them.  I get that. I thought you might at least be, you know, kind of familiar with who I was talking about.  Anyway, I don't watch the show either. I don't watch a lot of TV. So, it's cool.  
**[1:03:23-1:03:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:03:23):**  But I've watched three or four enough to know that they have cows and they raise cows.  And I would assume that, you know, when you have a bear or caribou, like you're out there, you know, you're disassembling it so you can pack the thing out of the woods.  So, if somebody had an animal they wanted to go get processed, like or they had a cow they wanted to go get processed.  
**[1:03:47-1:04:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:03:47):**  Is there anywhere in Alaska that you can take an animal to like a USDA plant and have it disassembled?  There's plenty of places around here that will do the cutting up for you because we also get a lot of tourists and like they want their stuff handled.  You know, a lot of them are like, oh, lucky, you know. But we even take some stuff to different meat processing places.  
**[1:04:13-1:04:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:04:13):**  It's these like small mom and pop meat processing because they have really good recipes.  So, like caribou brats. If you go to Indian Valley Meats, they have the best caribou brat recipe ever.  We love it. We can't do it well ourselves. So, we'll pay the money to have someone do it for us.  
**[1:04:30-1:04:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:04:30):**  And it's a really great price. And also, like they took some of the bear meat, made some bear bacon.  And I don't, so I don't, whenever I have pig, it really upsets my stomach, including bacon. I can have bear bacon.  So, that stuff's really good or like a pastrami cut, you know, some of the more specialty type meat stuff.  
**[1:04:56-1:05:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:04:56):**  I'll say that there is a massive difference in pastured pork bacon and industrial CAFO bacon.  I can't tolerate the CAFO bacon as well as I can tolerate the pastured pig bacon.  I mean, it doesn't upset my stomach. It doesn't make me run out of the bathroom or anything, but my stomach knows.  
**[1:05:19-1:05:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:05:19):**  I mean, it definitely knows when I'm eating, you know, hamburger from the grocery store or whether, you know, it's something we got for one of my friends.  Same with chicken too.  Yeah, exactly. So that's probably why I've had trouble with having like pork and whatnot, or any sort of like pig products is where it's coming from.  
**[1:05:43-1:06:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:05:43):**  And I would be totally willing to try, you know, from a farm or from a local farm type deal.  But yeah, there are places up here that will do cuts for you, like, you know, flaying fish, cutting up different animals or doing some of those specialty type meat process type stuff.  Okay, very cool.  
**[1:06:07-1:06:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:06:07):**  So I guess we'll kind of cruise in to the second part of your name, Eskimo libertarian. Without getting too horribly overtly political.  I guess you communicate extremely well on Facebook with me, like, I, every time I see a meme on Facebook, it usually has Eskimo libertarian as the credit down in the corner.  So maybe like what are, what is a libertarian and what isn't a libertarian?  
**[1:06:46-1:07:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:06:46):**  Yeah, I would say libertarian is someone who advocates for far less government than what we have, and looking at things in terms of like consenting to different government types of it, like being able to opt out of government things would be a libertarian idea.  And so it's also the idea of like, don't hurt others, don't take their stuff, you know, kind of leave each other alone, sort of things. And so it's the idea that government has come in and really mess things up, destroyed different industries, and is just is not the best solution  for these things and the best person for the solution is yourself. So that's kind of like libertarianism in a nutshell, I would say. And I started my page, because, like, COVID hit.  
**[1:07:48-1:08:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:07:48):**  And I didn't realize that government had the powers that they were using, like, I'm like, oh, the government is able to do that. Like, they're allowed to do that and then it made me realize, I need to pay attention.  And the more I paid attention, the more I was like, okay, something needs to be done. So like, any good millennial, I started a meme page.  But I also do a lot of like, volunteering, you know, like volunteerist sort of activities, I already was a big advocate on volunteering for your community and whatnot. And I had those libertarian tendencies, I was a libertarian just didn't know it yet, type of thing.  
**[1:08:30-1:09:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:08:30):**  I think there's a lot of people that are and are tricked into voting for one of the other two teams because the word's just not getting out there.  Essentially, and so that's what I'm hoping with these memes, like using humor, and you know, like, or something that just grabs your attention, because on social media, you only have a very short window to grab someone's attention.  And so being able to gather attention and like convince them with humor has been the most effective means I've seen with spreading the movement.  
**[1:09:05-1:09:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:09:05):**  I'm not a very funny guy, which is why I got to sit down and do this for two hours to get some content.  It took a lot to get to refine my art or whatever.  It is an interesting process, like as your page grows, your audience grows, you know, you kind of branch and you try different messages or you try different formats. And once your audience kind of gets that critical mass, you start getting enough feedback regularly.  
**[1:09:37-1:10:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:09:37):**  You're like, okay, now I know what's working. Now I know what's working and the success just builds on the success. I kind of feel like I'm maybe about a half a step away from that.  Yeah, I definitely do get feedback. And when a post flops, I'm like, oh man, that didn't do well. That didn't land right.  I've also sprinkled in there living in Alaska, because people are always wanting to learn more.  
**[1:10:11-1:10:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:10:11):**  I'm going to back up. So it sounds like, you know, when COVID hit, you just came to the realization while you're watching the government, you know, take all this overreach, shut things down, you know, enforce authority on private businesses that they shouldn't have the authority to enforce.  From my point of view, you know, the government only has as much power as we let them.  And payable by fine means legal for a price. I mean, so there's two kinds of laws payable by fine, which means legal for a price, or they're going to threaten you with court.  
**[1:10:47-1:11:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:10:47):**  And even if they threaten you with court and it's, you know, a misdemeanor, you don't show up for court, a guy with a gun is going to show up and throw you in a box.  Like, that's the end result payable by fine or a guy with a gun shows up to throw you in a box.  Right.  
**[1:11:01-1:11:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:11:01):**  And like, okay, so wearing a mask is a law now.  Wait a minute.  You're going to call a guy to come here and pull a gun on me because I don't want to put a piece of cloth on my face?  
**[1:11:14-1:11:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:11:14):**  That doesn't make sense. Like that's not an effective use of public resources.  And I think that a lot of us really start to question things in March of 2020.  You know, why are we allowing this? And the really scary part is there's tens of millions of Americans that were cheering for it.  
**[1:11:37-1:11:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:11:37):**  Exactly. We didn't see that as much up here. So up here, there was a different mindset.  There were people that were trying to put restrictions. Like, for example, one of the more Alaskan reason or examples is they tried shutting down bear hunting.  You're going to tell me I can't go out in the woods and go bear hunting because I might get COVID from the bears.  
**[1:11:57-1:12:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:11:57):**  Like, really? We are as social distance as you could possibly get. I can guarantee you most of the US aren't the social distance.  And so examples like that coming out of our governing body.  Luckily, a lot of people stood up and were like, no, this is not going to happen.  
**[1:12:13-1:12:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:12:13):**  And our elected officials listened to us and like, okay, you're right. You can go bear hunting.  You're right. That maybe was kind of stupid. Exactly.  So that was like some of the examples that we had up here.  
**[1:12:26-1:12:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:12:26):**  The government coming in and being like, this is for your safety. You can't go bear hunting.  I hope you enjoyed this episode. I had a little bit longer one in mind, but I'm sure as a lot of us can understand, living in the country, sometimes the power goes out or you lose Internet.  That's what happened here.  
**[1:12:43-1:12:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:12:43):**  So please go check out Eskimo Libertarian on whatever social media is your drug of choice.  I'll make sure I drop plenty links in the show notes.  This episode has been sponsored by C90 Ocean Minerals. Visit c90.com to find a distributor near you or call to request a quote today.  
**[1:12:59-1:13:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/82-Nalick-Trupp-Eskimo-Libertarian-e1ntfos#t=1:12:59):**  That's s e a dash nine zero dot com. And don't forget to mention that Ranching Reboot sent you.  Have a great week, you.  