---
title: 83 Tony Jaros Corrientes In The Pnw
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2022-09-26)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:00:00):**  Hello and welcome back for another week of Ranching Reboot Podcast. I'm your host,  Red Hills Rancher, and this is episode number 83. This episode sponsored by C90 Ocean Minerals,  nature's most complete trace mineral salt and the one I feed to my herd. Support for this episode,  
**[0:00:14-0:00:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:00:14):**  also provided by our generous patrons over on Patreon.com forward slash Red Hills Rancher. Be  sure you go by there and check out all the sweet merch rewards I have for the top tier patrons.  All my patrons on Patreon.com forward slash Red Hills Rancher are also automatically entered to  
**[0:00:28-0:00:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:00:28):**  win one of the two C90 swag packs that I'm going to be giving away real soon. The other swag pack  we're going to give away in the Ranching Reboot Paddock. That's our private Facebook group.  Check the show notes or my link tree for a link. All right, got to pay some bills. If you haven't  
**[0:00:42-0:00:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:00:42):**  heard about Anchor by Spotify, it's the easiest way to make a podcast with everything you need  all in one place. Let me explain. Anchor has all the tools that allow you to record and edit your  podcast right from your phone or your computer. When hosting on Anchor, you can distribute your  
**[0:00:57-0:01:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:00:57):**  podcast on listening platforms such as Spotify, Apple Podcast, Google and more. And it's super  easy. It's everything you need to make a podcast in one place. And best of all, Anchor is totally  free. Download the Anchor app or go to anchor.fm to get started today.  
**[0:01:12-0:01:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:01:12):**  Hey man, how are you doing today?  Doing good. How are you Brian?  Oh, I'm doing great. I just mentioned before you hit the record button, it's been a couple  
**[0:01:34-0:01:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:01:34):**  weeks since I've actually sat down and done one of these. So I might be a little bit rusty.  That's all right.  So tell us who you are and where you're at to start off with.  
**[0:01:45-0:02:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:01:45):**  My name is Tony Jaros and I'm in Western Washington and my buddy and I partner on  a cattle ranch in Eastern Washington where he lives just outside of Grand Coulee.  Okay, very cool. Yeah, I was kind of did a little bit of Facebook stalking you a few minutes ago  
**[0:02:03-0:02:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:02:03):**  to kind of prepare for this and I didn't get that good of an idea where you're at.  Yeah, I'm pretty, I keep it pretty locked down just because I work law enforcement for my full  time job. So I keep a minimal amount of information on the Facebook page. But right now I live in  
**[0:02:18-0:02:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:02:18):**  Western Washington and our plan is to hopefully within the next year relocate over to the east  side closer to that area because it's a challenge being on this side of the state and he's on that  side of the state because he's got the brunt of the manual labor and  
**[0:02:36-0:02:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:02:36):**  crossing the path, especially in the wintertime, can be quite the challenge.  Okay, so the the western side you get more rain there and the eastern side is a lot more  kind of like a high desert type environment? Correct, except for there's sections of the  
**[0:02:50-0:03:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:02:50):**  eastern part of the state that are higher mountain areas, you know, where a lot more snow and  you get down into like the Moses Lake area. It's more of your typical desert area like,  you know, southern Arizona, California and stuff like that. We're kind of I would consider that  
**[0:03:07-0:03:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:03:07):**  area kind of high desert, maybe a little bit of prairie style ground kind of like you guys have  in Kansas. Big open rolling hills. Yeah, rocky and areas and then, you know, you go a little bit  farther north from where the ranch is you get into the pines and, you know, lower elevations  
**[0:03:30-0:03:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:03:30):**  of the mountains as you go farther north towards Kansas or not Kansas, but Canada.  I've never heard that mistake before. That's a new one on me, but we'll let that one go.  So you reached out and you wanted to talk about a specific kind of cattle.  
**[0:03:52-0:04:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:03:52):**  Correct, Corianis. That's what I got into. I started it, got my first pair of Corianis  four years ago. Okay. Used to hate the breed when I was a cop down in Arizona. I hated them because  they'd be all over your yard out on range ripping fences up to get at your horse hay and stuff like  
**[0:04:11-0:04:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:04:11):**  that. I could not stand them. And of course, you know, most of them spent their life in the arena  being roped when they were younger. So they're used to being around people. Yep. They're used to  being handled fast and rough. Yep. And they just come right back no matter how many times they  
**[0:04:27-0:04:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:04:27):**  chase them off the next day. It's either the same group back or a new group rolling through. So  you made an interesting comment. You know, they'd always be in your yard or trying to get your horse  hay. And you know, ever since I've had them and had them around on the ranch, people have been  
**[0:04:44-0:05:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:04:44):**  like, oh, they're fence jumpers. How are you going to keep them in behind a single poly behind a  single piece of hot wire? It's pretty easy if you don't let them get hungry. It's when they get  hungry. There's no fence that'll hold them when they get hungry. Right, right. I mean, these were  
**[0:05:00-0:05:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:05:00):**  out on 50, 60,000 acre ranches in the rough desert. So they smell a good easy food source.  They were right there. So yeah, I don't know if I've told this story yet. So a few weeks ago,  when we brought, we came into work calves, I had a little package of fall bread cows that I wanted to  
**[0:05:21-0:05:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:05:21):**  preg check. We preg checked them, sort off the open ones, and we were going to haul them over  to a different pasture. So that was kind of last thing we were doing. We had everything else turned  back into pasture, all the cows that were staying, you know, all the calves, they roll back in  
**[0:05:34-0:05:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:05:34):**  pasture. And we had 10. Well, nine made it. So this one cow, she's probably 750 pound cow, probably,  I think six years old is what the vet mouth they're at. She, she tried to jump out of the  corrals. Didn't quite get them cleared. We got her in a trailer in a half top trailer. She jumped out  
**[0:05:57-0:06:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:05:57):**  of the back of that trailer and got loose. She was still in the corrals. We're like, okay, fine,  we'll just stuff her back in a pen. That's fine. I'll deal with her tomorrow. Hauled the,  hauled the coals over to the pasture they're hanging out in and send all the help home.  
**[0:06:15-0:06:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:06:15):**  She was kind of back out in the back trap and figured, okay, whatever, I'll deal with her  tomorrow morning. Came back out tomorrow morning. She wasn't in the trap. She'd hopped two five wire  barbed wire fences and a hot wire and was standing in the middle of the herd the next morning.  
**[0:06:33-0:06:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:06:33):**  Yeah, they are very athletic. I mean, when I was operating solely on the west side here,  it's obviously far more populated. I was loading a group of them into the trailer. A panel fell down  where I could shut the door on the trailer. A cow and a steer jumped out. And of course,  
**[0:06:50-0:07:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:06:50):**  when I got behind them, they go into panic mode because I'm putting pressure on them.  They're on the run?  Yep. They go straight to the highway, disappear. You know, I've got 15, 20 cows in a trailer. I'm  
**[0:07:02-0:07:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:07:02):**  not going to be able to chase them. So I let them be. The Sheriff's Office showed up and they,  luckily they disappeared into the brush or hanging out in the field for a week. Found them again. I  got the steer to go back into the corral but the cow would not go back into the corral just circle  
**[0:07:20-0:07:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:07:20):**  around go back in. She was out for at least a week and a half. I finally pushed the rest of the cows  into the corral, cut the electric fence for the pasture, pushed her back through on our side of  the property. She saw the fence was cut open, went in there finally, sprinted up there, tied the  
**[0:07:37-0:07:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:07:37):**  electric fence back up and then opened the corral gate back up so she could get back in the herd  because there was no way she was going to go in with me behind her. We've had out here where I  live so I've got a highway running through the ranch and we had a big wildfire in 2016. It came  
**[0:07:57-0:08:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:07:57):**  through and it ended up burning up a lot of the trees in the road ditch. So the State Highway  Department had a lot of dead trees that were starting to fall, you know, fall into the ditch,  fall on people's fences and a bunch of us have been putting some pressure on them to come out  
**[0:08:11-0:08:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:08:11):**  and clean it all up. So the state got some money from the feds and they came out and they cleaned  out about cleaned all the ditches for over 20 miles. It's really nice and so where they tore  out all the brush and the trees, you know, of course they came in they put down their mats and  
**[0:08:27-0:08:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:08:27):**  reseeded and put fertilizer down. With about 35 to 40 percent of our normal rainfall where do you  think the only green things growing are right now? During the road ditch where they planted them. So  the best fence in the world really isn't is going to get challenged by everything and  
**[0:08:49-0:09:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:08:49):**  oh I haven't had one for about five days but there for a while there for about two weeks it was every  other night I was getting a call there were cattle on the highway. Most of them weren't mine.  Yeah, that's the best feeling in the world, right? Like eight o'clock at night you get a call and it  
**[0:09:06-0:09:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:09:06):**  you know pops up sheriff's dispatch before I even answer I'm already going and I'm pulling my pants  on right? Yeah, I'm starting to get dressed because I know there's no other reason why the  sheriff is going to be calling me at eight o'clock at night other than there's a cow on the highway  
**[0:09:20-0:09:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:09:20):**  that I need to go look at. So phone rings, pull the pants on, start getting out the door and  the last few times it hasn't been mine. That's been kind of nice but there's three or four of  us out here that have had to put everybody else's cows in. It's just kind of a reputation like,  
**[0:09:37-0:09:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:09:37):**  yeah, I'll take this one you get the next one. Yeah, last year was bad for us. You know,  I feel bad living on this side. He has to deal with it most of the time but it was such a bad  drought last year. They were out constantly in the neighbors wheat fields, jumping fences,  
**[0:09:55-0:10:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:09:55):**  getting into other pastures and stuff like that. Same grass on our side as the other side there  and then this year has been a lot better. The only issue we had last year is he paid some high  schoolers to feed the cattle in the winter time. We had them all in the corral for the winter.  
**[0:10:13-0:10:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:10:13):**  They left the gate open. Eight of them left. Got a snowstorm. Those eight never came back  and about three months later he found two of them seven, eight miles away in a canyon.  Was able to gather those but we haven't been able to find the rest of them so we figured they got  
**[0:10:31-0:10:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:10:31):**  disoriented during that snowstorm and just kept wandering and wandering and wandering.  We're the only ones in the area that run corianis so if something would have popped  up in someone's pasture would have stood out like a sore thumb. That's kind of the way  
**[0:10:46-0:11:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:10:46):**  things are around here. I'm the only weirdo around for miles and miles with  with orange colored cattle so if one of them's out pretty sure it's mine.  I like the breed. I love it. I started out raising dairy cows and crossing them to beef bulls usually  
**[0:11:04-0:11:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:11:04):**  through AI. I got a buddy who does AI so I experimented with different bulls and stuff like that.  Then I started doing more and more research on the corianis talking to guys. I liked what I saw.  The hardiness of the animal, minimal maintenance and stuff on them.  
**[0:11:23-0:11:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:11:23):**  They're funny animals. You can have them in the corral in the wintertime and they're like  dog gentle and the second you put them out on a big pasture it's almost like they turn into a wild animal.  I've noticed a lot of difference in the corrals.  
**[0:11:36-0:11:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:11:36):**  You know, gathering from the pasture, bringing them in. We can do that with feed trucks.  We can do that with horses. I can do that with side by side and it's a fairly low stress operation.  As soon as I get my corianis in the pen I've got to have everybody get off their horses or things are going to get western.  
**[0:11:50-0:12:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:11:50):**  Because if we're working them on foot, that's not their fallback from say most of them are worn out roping stock.  I'm not saying that that's all what I have but there's enough of them in there that I have that are worn out.  That are retired roping stock. When they get in that confined environment and you put cowboys in there on a horse.  
**[0:12:20-0:12:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:12:20):**  They want to go fast. They fall back into that previous training from their former life.  They want to go fast. They want to get away because that's their training and that's their program.  I've found if we go tie the horses up and get on foot and it seems counter-intuitive to get on foot with animals that have two feet of spear hanging off their head.  
**[0:12:41-0:13:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:12:41):**  But they stay calm. They stay calm. They stay gentle. We can get a lot more done without the cattle getting stressed out.  Yeah, we don't usually use horses in the pen. We've always kind of done it by foot because it was usually him and I.  Last year I think he had more or this spring he had more help but our biggest challenge was the first year.  
**[0:13:00-0:13:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:13:00):**  A bunch of cows I got were already bred back to Corianni bulls and those purebred Corianni calves are a nightmare to work.  They're like torpedoes. They slip through anything. It was a rodeo jumping. These calves are literally jumping.  They've been like four foot fences and busting out of that corral. So now we finally got all cattle panels around the corral metal panels.  
**[0:13:26-0:13:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:13:26):**  So there's nothing getting out now but those things were wild.  I've got some full-blood Coriannis that I've raised from calves.  Because I bought sale barn cows that were already bred and I had no idea what they're bred to.  
**[0:13:42-0:13:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:13:42):**  I kept all those heifers because well why not? There's some really good looking heifers in there.  I've probably got 10 or 12 two-year-olds that are full Corianni.  They're a little wild kind of like jackrabbits with horns.  
**[0:14:01-0:14:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:14:01):**  Just big jackrabbits with horns.  Yeah, so I was glad once we got rid of all those. Now we're down to just pure crosses.  Because we're running short horn bulls. Our cows. So everything that's capped on the ranch over the last two years has been a pure bred.  
**[0:14:17-0:14:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:14:17):**  Or not a pure bred Corianni but a cross.  Are your cross calves less attitudinal than your Corianni calves?  Oh yeah, they're a lot easier to work. They're metal. The bulls are like dog gentle.  
**[0:14:34-0:14:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:14:34):**  The gal I buy them from she actually shows the bulls. So when we get them they're usually always  halter trained. They've been handled. I mean we had one out on the neighboring ranch  about a month ago and we located the bull and he just started walking towards the horse.  
**[0:14:51-0:15:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:14:51):**  And led him right back into the pasture like it was just normal for him.  Like he knew what he was supposed to do.  Yep, exactly. So that makes it super nice.  
**[0:15:05-0:15:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:15:05):**  So let's back up a little bit. Tell me about your ranches. Tell me about your land base.  So land base is 2018. My buddy actually bought a I think it was about 14 or 1500 acre ranch.  About a year or two. I can't remember. It was either a year or two after a wildfire  
**[0:15:26-0:15:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:15:26):**  burned through the ranch and didn't destroy the house or the outbuildings or anything like that.  Just mainly fencing and stuff like that and the power lines and so forth.  So and then he sold off a bunch.  
**[0:15:39-0:15:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:15:39):**  You know after going through it I'd rather have the fences be fine and the house burned down  because you can insure the house. Yeah.  And you'll get a better one. But the fences are not not you can't really insure your fences.  
**[0:15:53-0:16:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:15:53):**  And you got to rebuild all those and that's that's all pure cost.  Yeah, and he spent hours and hours you know out there running new barbed wire fixing the current  barbed wire and stuff like that. And there's still a lot of work that needs to be done out there.  
**[0:16:06-0:16:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:16:06):**  But he sold off a couple parcels. He sold off a 300 section acre to me.  I had most of the cows so eventually just moved all the cows over there.  And I think we're at about 1200 acres now. Still working on our infrastructure to get  
**[0:16:22-0:16:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:16:22):**  a you know, then goal is to rotationally graze and stuff like that and kind of split our herds  because we are keeping some of our heifers the crosses and you know trying to keep them separate  from the father run a different bull on them and stuff like that.  
**[0:16:40-0:16:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:16:40):**  So we're still working on the infrastructure stuff but it's also hard to work in full time  both of us to be able to put the time and needed in the funds and so forth to you know,  get the operation where we'd like it to be. But like as far as grass goes,  
**[0:16:59-0:17:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:16:59):**  yeah, the blue bunch wheat grass, cheatgrass obviously, Kentucky bluegrass and  Sandburg bluegrass. A lot of the pasture is sub irrigated.  Usually the grass stays pretty green most of the year and is grown and then the higher parts where  
**[0:17:14-0:17:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:17:14):**  it's rockier and stuff obviously it's usually spring grass.  So what's your winter like up there? Winter kind of buries the last few winters have been pretty  mild last winter they got a decent amount of snow over there. So we're looking forward to  
**[0:17:30-0:17:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:17:30):**  our ponds being filled up again because last year everything dried up from the drought.  But the snow melt up I guess he was talking to some of the local ranchers around him and  they said the snow melt off was too fast. So the water absorbed into the ground.  
**[0:17:43-0:18:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:17:43):**  I guess I didn't quite understand it. So the ponds actually already dried up over there. Some of the  the ponds that we usually had for most of the grazing season have already dried up.  But as far as winners go, I don't know what the actual snowfall total is usually there  
**[0:18:02-0:18:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:18:02):**  over the winter time, but I know it gets down to it can get down into the January timeframe.  Negatives like... I guess what I'm getting at is let's talk about your winter feed program for this year.  What's your plan to get through the winter to green grass next year? The winter feed program this year  
**[0:18:22-0:18:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:18:22):**  with the way hay prices are we're trying to I think the goal is to run them in 170 acre section  that has not been touched yet for as long as we can until the snow flies and it's too deep.  But our biggest challenge is the the watering fees right now we're down to just watering at the corral  
**[0:18:42-0:19:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:18:42):**  because those ponds have dried up yet. The plan is to eventually get some wells dug for just livestock  and some of those pastures and you'll put them on the corner of some of the paddocks so you got one  water source for a couple pastures right there. So if we're going to end up grazing like that it's  
**[0:19:00-0:19:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:19:00):**  gonna have to do some fence building you know allow them into that corral from that pasture  in order to get water and stuff so that's the plan because last year we  got a good deal on hay and I think we started feeding hay.  
**[0:19:16-0:19:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:19:16):**  I can't remember when he started feeding it might have been the beginning of December  and the amount of hay we had took us through mid-March timeframe. 90, 100, 100 years ago.  That's not bad. Yeah, so that's not bad for as far north as you guys are.  
**[0:19:36-0:19:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:19:36):**  Yeah, well that's why I've been messaging you too about your protein just because of the the cost of  those protein tubs now. Yeah, you know I'm here I'm sitting here asking you what you're gonna do  and I don't have it all figured out yet either. You know it might be a mix of some alfalfa hay  
**[0:19:55-0:20:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:19:55):**  and protein tubs this year just to kind of moderate the cost and to reduce the ration a little  bit like keep trying to step down the protein ration every year. I know Ranching for  Profit likes to say you can't starve a profit into a business and I'm not trying to starve my cows.  
**[0:20:14-0:20:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:20:14):**  I'm just trying to push them to see what's going to succeed. Every year, every season ratchet  that input back a little bit. You know ratchet pull back the inputs and increase the management a little bit.  We'll see maybe I'm gonna have a wreck maybe it'll be fine.  
**[0:20:33-0:20:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:20:33):**  Yeah, I mean the biggest thing this year I don't know how it is for you guys  the hay prices are just crazy out here. Yeah, so let's see last year I had my buddy DJ Bailup  a few acres around just so I could get about a two-week hay supply because that's  
**[0:20:52-0:21:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:20:52):**  about all I like to keep is a two-week supply of hay around and that's just in case we get  like we get a big snowstorm that sticks around for a few days. We get a big ice storm.  That's kind of the condition I need to feed but I'm also only about 20 miles away  
**[0:21:09-0:21:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:21:09):**  from the Oklahoma state line. Hard winters are fairly rare here and looking at the outlook  it looks like the La Nina pattern is supposed to continue through the winter  and with where the jet stream is supposed to be I'm probably going to be on the dry side of that.  
**[0:21:28-0:21:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:21:28):**  I'm probably not going to go buy any more hay this year. I'm planning on maybe  keeping a couple like fencing off a couple ridge tops for next year so I can pull some hay off of  it next year in a different spot but that's just prairie hay. Last year, so I was just kind of  
**[0:21:48-0:22:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:21:48):**  trying to price it last year and it was maybe $65 a ton last year. I mean you can hardly give it away.  This year the same kind of prairie hay is $184 more per ton.  For just prairie hay, just going out to the pasture and  
**[0:22:12-0:22:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:22:12):**  swathing and baling native range it was $180 a ton. The good feed, the sorghum  sorghum sedan based type feed hay, I've been driving around enough in the last couple weeks.  I just don't think there's going to be very much of it around here. I'm really wondering  
**[0:22:36-0:22:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:22:36):**  how many guys have a plan for winter or actually have a workable plan  for winter that doesn't involve a couple hundred tons of hay.  Yeah, that's kind of what it comes down to. A couple years ago I dabbled into doing my own hay, but  
**[0:22:50-0:23:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:22:50):**  I'm not a mechanically inclined person and got to the point where you're ready to burn your  baler down when things go wrong because you can't just figure out the mechanics of it. I mean,  I got most of it done but I did most of it myself too and it was small square bales and it's like,  
**[0:23:06-0:23:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:23:06):**  ah, this isn't worth the amount of labor that goes into it for just me. Then we got to use  like this year, it's like, ah, with pay prices the way there, I kind of wish I still had some of my  equipment because we could have done some bailing on the ranch. But it kind of is what it is.  
**[0:23:25-0:23:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:23:25):**  I'm just waiting for the guys to go start running up and down the county roads and bailing the  ditches in the county. Yeah, that's what my neighbors used to do in Minnesota. They would  just literally bail the ditches. I've heard stories during previous droughts of the old timers  
**[0:23:42-0:24:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:23:42):**  turning their cows out into the ditches and letting them graze the long pasture.  Yeah. Well, that's the way it was like on the west side last year. We usually get,  I'd say everyone who's lived, grew up around here says typically get rained,  
**[0:24:00-0:24:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:24:00):**  to about the fourth of July. Last year, last rainfall was sometime in the beginning of May.  Super hot and dry all year. Usually you guys get pretty good yield here with the moisture and stuff  over here. I think guys yield last year on dry hay was half of what it usually is. And then this year,  
**[0:24:20-0:24:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:24:20):**  the opposite guys didn't really start bailing dry hay here till almost the end of the June because  of the amount of rain we got throughout the spring. Fields were just way too wet.  Last year, tons of hay was going to Montana.  
**[0:24:35-0:24:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:24:35):**  Yeah.  So truck after truck was going east.  Probably not going to be a whole lot needed to go east this year. They had a great,  
**[0:24:44-0:24:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:24:44):**  it looks like they had a really great year in Idaho. I think all our friends in Idaho are doing  good and they're helping our friends out here.  They're helping our friends out in Montana that are suffering. North Dakota, South Dakota,  
**[0:24:56-0:25:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:24:56):**  they got good timely rains there. Late spring, early summer, they're doing fine.  But Western Nebraska, Kansas, Wyoming, Eastern Colorado, down in the panhandles in New Mexico.  It's pretty grim.  
**[0:25:10-0:25:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:25:10):**  Is it?  Yeah. It's not great by any stretch of imagination. I think, well, it was the first time I saw  a graphic the National Weather Service in Dodge City put out. It was broken down by the six  
**[0:25:25-0:25:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:25:25):**  regions that Dodge City forecasts for. My little spot, out of the 130 years they've been keeping  records, this was the 128th driest August 1st to August 1st they've recorded.  Oh, wow.  
**[0:25:40-0:25:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:25:40):**  Yeah. It's not the all-time record.  Yeah.  It's really close. Forage production is, we caught an inch rain, I don't know, 10 days ago.  
**[0:25:59-0:26:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:25:59):**  That's made everything look kind of green for a little bit. The summer heat's still here.  Things are starting to get yellow again in a big hurry.  Yeah. How many head do you run, Brian? Did you start out specifically running Corianis?  
**[0:26:17-0:26:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:26:17):**  Well, that's an interesting question. I've been out here now for 16 years. Been my grazing  business. I started in 2008. Was custom grazing from 2008 to 2020. In March 2020 is when I  bought my first set of cows. Through 2020, I made several runs through some sale barns and  
**[0:26:42-0:27:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:26:42):**  scraped up what I thought were some good deals and good buys. I've only had my Corianis since  March of 2020. I'm a little newer to this than you are, but as far as the grass, the cows, the  ranch side, we've been doing that a little bit. I'm still a fairly new livestock owner, but I've  
**[0:27:04-0:27:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:27:04):**  been caring for other peoples for quite a long time. Took my first one to the processor last week.  By the time this one comes out, should have some of that back. I'm looking forward to  seeing what some of my cows taste like that have been on the ranch since March of 2020.  
**[0:27:20-0:27:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:27:20):**  Oh, nice. What are you running for bulls again? I couldn't remember if you were running Angus.  I have run Angus. In 2020, we ran straight up Angus. Well, last year we ran straight up Angus.  And then for the fall, I had a bunch open off the summer session. So I wanted to put some bulls in  
**[0:27:41-0:27:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:27:41):**  to try to get another 15 cows bred on a fall try. We ended up getting over half of them bred.  Those were Fleck V influenced cimetal bulls. Those calves are hitting the ground  literally right now. I've already had two of them as we go to recording. Hopefully by the time this  
**[0:27:58-0:28:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:27:58):**  one comes out, I'll have all of them on the ground. The two so far that we've got are just beautiful  little red calves so far. Nice. Is that what you're running from here on out as far as bulls go?  Because I know that's what you're kind of looking for. Yeah. So this year I put one Angus bull out,  
**[0:28:21-0:28:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:28:21):**  one of those cimetal bulls. Then I had my friend Richard bring up a Mashona South Pole Cross Bull.  That was a year and a half old. So hopefully that little Mashona South Pole that I named Carlos,  hopefully Carlos has covered my two-year-olds and the one-year-olds that were cycling already.  
**[0:28:42-0:28:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:28:42):**  And the Angus and the cimetal covered everything else. That's the hope. Nice. Yeah, because for  the longest time you read all these articles, I feel like everyone's about, I shouldn't say  everyone, but Charolais, Charolais, Charolais on the Corianni cows. You see a lot of guys doing  
**[0:28:59-0:29:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:28:59):**  the Angus and stuff like that, but I haven't really run into anyone else who's using short horned bulls.  I mean, they're hard to find out in this area because I feel like that's a Midwest breed.  So fifties and sixties, that's all that was here was short horns.  
**[0:29:14-0:29:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:29:14):**  The short horns went away and then the Hereford's came in and the Hereford's went away and Angus  came in. So just waiting for the next fad, I guess. So yeah, Charolais, I think Charolais on  Corianni cows. I think that's a good terminal cross, but that's not what I'm after. You know,  
**[0:29:36-0:29:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:29:36):**  those Charolais Corianni cross calves, you know, 80 plus percent of them are going to be smoke.  And those smokes sell like fire at the sale barn. Fires love them. I don't know why. You send  something else there from the same breeding group that's colored up and they won't touch it with a  
**[0:29:53-0:30:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:29:53):**  10 foot pole, but you send a pin of smokes and I've seen them sell like hotcakes. I think that's a  good cross. How that Corianni Charolais does as a maternal cross, I'm not entirely, I've never seen  that. I don't know of anybody actually doing that. Do you?  
**[0:30:15-0:30:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:30:15):**  There's a guy I talked to on Facebook a little bit. His name is Toby Dahl, D-A-H-L. He's got  a big ranch in, I think it's Northeastern Montana. And I think he might be doing that. He was kind of  doing just about everything. He was running Charolais bulls on them. I think he was even  
**[0:30:37-0:30:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:30:37):**  running some belted Galloway bulls on some of the crosses. He was kind of really mixing it up.  I haven't really talked to him a while. It was just a couple of messages we exchanged on Facebook  when I was starting to get into it to learn a little bit more about it and see what direction  
**[0:30:52-0:31:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:30:52):**  I wanted to go into. He would probably be a good one to reach out to about his program. I know he  uses Coriannis and he does snooze some Longhorn. Okay. We'll have to check that guy out. Toby Dahl,  you said? Yeah, Toby Dahl. I think I've seen that name sounds familiar.  
**[0:31:13-0:31:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:31:13):**  Tell me why you like the Shorthorn bulls. Well, the gal I buy my bulls from, she runs  Charolais and Shorthorn bulls. Charolais was what I was going to go with. But that year she refused  to sell any of her bulls because her sire came up with bad feed. She wasn't going to sell anything to  
**[0:31:36-0:31:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:31:36):**  breeding stocks. She castrated everything and revised her breeding program. I ended up buying  a Shorthorn bull from her after doing my research and reading on them. They're super docile.  You just said one of the most important things, I think, from a bull breeder is she said,  
**[0:31:53-0:32:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:31:53):**  I'm not going to sell you anything this year because I think I've got a problem and we're  going to reset. I like that. That's somebody that I would probably want to do business with as well.  Oh yeah. That year I bought a Shorthorn bull from her. Showed in the fair. Then the next year I  
**[0:32:10-0:32:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:32:10):**  bought another one from her. Very well built bull. He'd been halter trained. He's not as  gentle as the other one because the pandemic hit. She just put halters on him and got him ready to  go. But none of them went to the fair so they didn't go through a full program and stuff like  
**[0:32:26-0:32:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:32:26):**  that. But everything I read about the Shorthorns, the growth, they're docile. We haven't butchered  anything yet. The fertility, that was another big one for me. Obviously the earlier you can breed  them the better. Instead of getting stuff at 18, 19 months and some of those other breeds,  
**[0:32:48-0:33:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:32:48):**  it takes them longer to mature and stuff like that. So that was some of the reasons I went  with that. Then I was hoping for the biggest thing was the growth. Get something with explosive  growth on the calves. I feel like we don't have the infrastructure set up where we can weigh stuff.  
**[0:33:06-0:33:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:33:06):**  I would like to get to the point where we can do a better job tracking our cows productions. Which  calves are which with cows because you know how they get into a herd like that. It's like  where's Waldo? We don't know who's with who. I would like to start tracking some of that data.  
**[0:33:29-0:33:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:33:29):**  So then we could start calling out cows that just aren't doing well for us and stuff like that.  So that's kind of where I'm at. We're getting horns on these Shorthorns.  Well, Shorthorn bull to Coriantes. It's probably gonna happen.  
**[0:33:45-0:34:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:33:45):**  We're getting some. Some are naturally pulled, others you know, you got little nubs popping up.  Nothing like a Coriante by any means, but they're there.  I'm pretty fortunate. This year's calf crop, nothing even had nubs.  
**[0:34:03-0:34:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:34:03):**  Really?  Yeah. It's a pretty uniform calf crop. Only had one of them in there that's really colored up.  It's a white calf, black spots. I call him Django. Y'all might have seen pictures of him on social  
**[0:34:16-0:34:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:34:16):**  media. Just about everything else I had this year. I had a couple browns, most of them are  blacks and a couple of reds. Only one of them was really super colored up.  Okay. I think we might have had one or two roans this year. Most of them will pop out solid red,  
**[0:34:33-0:34:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:34:33):**  a little bit of white on the stomach. We did have one white face heifer last year, looked like a  Hereford out of that Coriante bull. Both of them are solid, but you know, you get on those colored  cows and you end up getting something you never know what you're going to really get.  
**[0:34:51-0:35:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:34:51):**  If you could have any bull you wanted for your Coriante cows, what would it be?  That's a good question. I like the short runs right now. I've considered maybe getting a  Charolais split the herd up a little bit and compare calf crop just to see. I'm pretty open,  
**[0:35:14-0:35:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:35:14):**  to be honest with you. Like when I had my Jersey cows, I would experiment. I did Angus,  Charolais bulls. I did one Simital just to see what the cross turned out like and what grew the  bass. I'm happy right now with short run bulls. I would really like to find a homozygous pulled  
**[0:35:39-0:36:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:35:39):**  black Hereford bull. I think homozygous pulled black Hereford bull. All my Coriante cows would  do something. One of my clients brought up some black bulls, some red Angus bulls. After about  two weeks, three weeks, all four of the black Angus bulls had to go home. They were all losing  
**[0:36:06-0:36:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:36:06):**  condition. They were all hurt and they wouldn't stay with the cows. The red bull is still there,  but he brought up a couple Hereford bulls. They are still checked in. That was five weeks ago.  They're still checked in. They're still working. Every time I see them, they're amongst the cows.  
**[0:36:24-0:36:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:36:24):**  They don't look like they've lost any condition at all. If anything, the little one has gained weight.  I guess what I'm saying is I'm just less than impressed every year that goes by  with the production Angus genetics and how they perform in pasture.  
**[0:36:42-0:37:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:36:42):**  Yeah, I would agree with you too. I kind of wanted to do something different because all  you ever hear now is Angus, Angus, Angus, Angus. I feel like there's a lot of good breeds out there  that do well on hardy conditions that Corianes perform well on. I think there's a lot of good  
**[0:37:01-0:37:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:37:01):**  crosses out there that can come out of the Coriante cows that aren't from an Angus sire,  a Angus sire bull.  I would definitely agree with that. I think there's going to have to be enough of us  
**[0:37:14-0:37:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:37:14):**  weirdos that like crap cattle that are trying different stuff. You know, you with your short  horns, maybe with the cimital and Michonne south pole. We'll find something that works.  What works for you in Washington state might not all work for me down here.  
**[0:37:31-0:37:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:37:31):**  Right. Yeah, I mean, I had a lady reach out to me on Craigslist trying to advertise feeder calves  wanting to, I just put short on cross. She wanted to know if they'd be good for  show calves for her four age kids. And I'm like, no, probably not so much.  
**[0:37:50-0:38:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:37:50):**  I said they've been out on range for months now. And these are crossed with  rodeo cattle. So I refer to the gal that I buy my short arm bulls from.  So how are you out? So what are you doing? Are you shipping cattle to the sale barn? Are you doing  
**[0:38:11-0:38:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:38:11):**  direct sales to consumer?  The plan is direct sales. So like the last couple of years with all my steers, I've just  gotten rid of them. I've just taken over the barn and got rid of it weaning just because I  
**[0:38:23-0:38:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:38:23):**  didn't want to deal with them. I've kept at least one steer out of every calf group,  just to you know, keep them on the place and see how they grow.  Part of my part of my thing is, if I'm going to sell meat, if I'm going to sell somebody  
**[0:38:43-0:39:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:38:43):**  beef, I'm not just going to go buy a feeder, stick it on the ranch for three months,  then go get it processed and put my brand on it. Right. And if people do that, that's fine.  That's totally fine. But that's not me. You know, if I'll sell you an old cow in a package,  
**[0:39:03-0:39:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:39:03):**  and I'll tell you, I had this cow for three years and tell you everything I did to it.  But I don't want to go buy a feeder that I don't know how it was treated for the first six months  or year of its life, how many shots it got, what kind of pasture it was in, what kind of,  
**[0:39:15-0:39:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:39:15):**  you know, what kind of high energy supplements I had, I don't want to go get one of those,  and then resell that as mine. If I'm going to sell it, I'm either going to tell you this is  ranch raised, which means it was maybe not conceived here, but it was born here. So I'll  
**[0:39:29-0:39:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:39:29):**  have some ranch raised beef to sell next year. But in 2024, everything I'm going to have to sell  is going to be 100% my breeding, my feeding and my management. And that's what I'd be proud to  put my name on. And that's why it's taken me so long to get anything to sell because  
**[0:39:49-0:40:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:39:49):**  I want to be able to stand behind it that I know everything that went into it that it's 100% me.  Well, how's your marketing going? That's where I kind of struggle is  to reach out to friends and family to get your name out there. And I feel like you run into  
**[0:40:06-0:40:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:40:06):**  you run into that brick wall where people hem and ha about it, the price. The other thing I've  learned around here, especially on the west side, get people that live in the city freezer space is  minimal. Yeah, they'll have like a little college apartment size fridge. Yeah, buy a half a beef.  
**[0:40:22-0:40:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:40:22):**  Yeah, because that's all you can afford here in Western Washington with the way  the market is right now the housing market and rental prices and stuff. So  yeah, it's a challenge. And I wrote down here, I was gonna ask you about marketing because  
**[0:40:38-0:40:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:40:38):**  I don't really have much of a plan, but I have time to build that. Right.  Yeah, I just took my first one of the processor. Like I said, by the time this one comes out,  and everybody hears it, I don't know, check social media, I might be really struggling to try to find  
**[0:40:51-0:41:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:40:51):**  a home for several hundred pounds worth of ground beef because I've got four more going to a  different processor at the end of the month at the end of September. So yeah, the first one is kind of  an experiment to see if I can get rid of it. And then three weeks later, I'll have to get rid of  
**[0:41:09-0:41:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:41:09):**  like four more. Yeah. Yeah. So my marketing, we don't really have much marketing, we just reach  out word of mouth, I pull out the phone, tap into the network and stuff like that. Some years, I feel  like you get a lot of response back and people jump all over and you sell four or five animals.  
**[0:41:26-0:41:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:41:26):**  And then there's other years you struggle just to fill an order of two steers that you're processing  and stuff like that. Well, there's about 18 or 19 people that listen to this podcast every week.  I've got a few on social media, on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and that evil TikTok app.  
**[0:41:46-0:42:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:41:46):**  I think I can get it moved. It's just how far I'm going to have to move it.  That's because I don't want to have to take for me to ship meat anywhere is just going to be  a large logistical challenge. I can't dry ice. I can't get dry ice out here anymore. That's a  
**[0:42:10-0:42:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:42:10):**  two hour drive away. And while I'm there, well, that's also the shipping center. So do I take  everything in one cooler or a couple coolers from here? Take it up there, go buy the dry ice,  go pack it in somebody's parking lot and then take it to the shipping center?  
**[0:42:24-0:42:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:42:24):**  No, maybe. And maybe that's what I end up having to do. But I would rather  that meat not leave more than about 50, maybe 100 mile radius of my ranch.  I want to try to feed their community, not try to feed the world.  
**[0:42:38-0:42:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:42:38):**  Yeah. And you're kind of out in the middle of nowhere. On the western side of Washington, it's  You have millions of people within two hours.  And they want locally grown product. That's the thing. It's just a matter of me  
**[0:42:55-0:43:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:42:55):**  finding the way to get into that market and having the infrastructure and stuff like that. Because  now I live, I sold my house last year. So living in a condo with my fiance right now. So it's kind  of a challenge. I got my F550 parked outside, which has created some issues around in the  
**[0:43:15-0:43:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:43:15):**  parking lot here for some of the local residents and stuff like that. And people don't quite  understand it's a 550. It doesn't turn on a dime and it takes a little bit to back it into a spot.  And the normal city size parking spaces. Yeah. Only about six inches bigger than what you need.  
**[0:43:33-0:43:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:43:33):**  Exactly. So the plan is, hopefully the plan is next year, we're able to relocate to the east side,  buy a piece of property within distance of the ranch. So then, I don't like the city. I hate it.  I grew up in rural Minnesota, went to college in the Twin Cities and I moved down to Arizona,  
**[0:43:56-0:44:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:43:56):**  lived down there for a few years. And when I transferred up to Washington, my duty assignment  was the suburbs here just outside of Seattle. So traffic's bad here. I don't really like the  weather on this side. I'm used to same as you going out in the wintertime, you can actually  
**[0:44:14-0:44:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:44:14):**  do stuff outside because the ground's dry and it's rock hard here, the ground's moist and you sink  about five inches in the ground because of the mud. It doesn't sound like fun.  Introducing C90 Ocean Minerals. C90 offers complete nutrient support for today's farm and ranch.  
**[0:44:33-0:44:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:44:33):**  With over 90 minerals and trace elements in nature's perfect balance, C90 re-mineralizes  soil, increases pasture quality and elevates the wellness of your herd. Enjoy improved  drought resistance, increased pasture protein and RFV values and the elimination of pinkeye  
**[0:44:48-0:45:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:44:48):**  and foot and hoof rot. Originally discovered by Dr. Maynard Murray, C90 is the only product that  meets his standards for sea energy agriculture, including a living ocean source and elevated  amounts of macro and trace elements. Freshly created in the Sea of Cortez and OMRI certified,  
**[0:45:05-0:45:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:45:05):**  C90 is free from pollutants and contaminants, including microplastics. Visit c90.com to learn  more today. That's s-e-a-9-0.com. C90 is available through distributors across the U.S. including over  200 tractor supply locations. Click the link in the show notes to find the dealer nearest you.  
**[0:45:24-0:45:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:45:24):**  We're always looking to grow our network. Give us a call or email today and be sure to mention  that Ranching Reboot sent you. Please check the show notes for all the contact information.  Now back to this week's episode. You said something and can we talk about your day job  
**[0:45:38-0:45:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:45:38):**  a little bit? Yeah. So what do you do for your day job? I'm a law enforcement officer so now I'm a  game warden. My first three years I was a cop down in Arizona. I worked on a reservation down there.  Ultimate goal in life was to be a game warden so I transferred up to the state of Washington in 2013.  
**[0:45:58-0:46:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:45:58):**  Got hired on a state game warden here. Worked here for about seven years and then I transferred  over to one of the tribes here outside of Seattle. I've been doing that for about two years now.  That was kind of the basis of my question because you said you told me that you're in  
**[0:46:17-0:46:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:46:17):**  tribal law enforcement and then you said you were working around the  suburbs in Seattle and I was just kind of curious how that worked.  There's a lot of tribes on the west coast here just up and down the coast. Most of them are  
**[0:46:32-0:46:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:46:32):**  small tribes like land base wise you know they're smaller reservations and stuff like that. Like  when I was a cop down in Arizona the reservation I worked on I think it was  1 million or 1.5 million acre reservation. A lot of the reservations on the west coast here  
**[0:46:51-0:47:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:46:51):**  on the I shouldn't say the west coast but on the coast here on the sound there are some down on the  actual Pacific. They're in southern Washington are usually pretty small. Now where our ranch is in  eastern Washington there's a large reservation over there that's around you know 1.5 2 million  
**[0:47:09-0:47:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:47:09):**  acres. But yeah as far as populated area so you got Seattle which is King County then you got  Pearson Snohomish County. I live in Snohomish County right now. Those are very heavily populated  counties with a million plus people. You get out into the eastern part of the county it's the  
**[0:47:26-0:47:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:47:26):**  Cascades so it is rural out there but it's not your ideal living conditions and stuff like that.  So most people are centralized right on that I-5 corridor. See I had a old navy buddy of mine lived  in Renton maybe. Flew out there about oh it's like 10 years ago to visit him and this is when I was  
**[0:47:48-0:48:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:47:48):**  still skiing. So living in Kansas where do I go ski? I go to Colorado 13 you know 12 13 000 feet  ski and I was in pretty good shape because I just coming off the ski season I think I spent like  18 days on the mountains right. So I fly up to Washington to hang out with Dominic and he's like  
**[0:48:10-0:48:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:48:10):**  hey let's go skiing and I think it was I'm gonna say it wrong Snohomish. Uh Snoqualmie pass did you  guys go up there? Yeah that's the one Snoqualmie pass and it's like the top of the mountain was  like 5500 feet. We get to the top of the lift and I'm like I'm getting off and I'm not even  
**[0:48:30-0:48:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:48:30):**  breathing hard and getting ready to go and he's like is there another lift that goes higher because  I can still breathe here. This is weird just run after run after run. It's so much different skiing  and lower elevation like this it wasn't even work. I was taking stuff that was way harder  
**[0:48:46-0:49:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:48:46):**  way harder than you would in Colorado just because I had you know I could get oxygen and I had energy.  I mean the mountains here get gobs of snow. I remember a couple years ago highway two going  up over Stevens pass here in Snohomish county was shut down for two weeks because it got seven feet  
**[0:49:02-0:49:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:49:02):**  of snow in like a 24-48 hour period. Seven feet? Seven feet yeah. I don't think I've ever seen  seven feet of snow in a winter in Kansas. Yeah because the first years to ever snowmobiling out  here I grew up in the Midwest snowmobile and loved it raised snow cross and did all that but  
**[0:49:22-0:49:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:49:22):**  I'd never ridden mountain powder before and about halfway into the ride this was just on normal  patrol. I'm like I'm done. I've dug the sled out two three times now this is too much work. I had  some guys come across the trail when we were out there patrolling help me dig out and I said my  
**[0:49:40-0:50:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:49:40):**  co-worker went up over the hill over here tell him I'll be down back out down at the cabin. If  he's stuck if he can help him get out because I'm not going back up there so but that's fair.  Yeah so you made a comment about that you might have jumped in too deep into this whole cattle  
**[0:50:03-0:50:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:50:03):**  business type operation. What was that about? I think I got a little carried away. I wanted to  pick up more and more and more cattle. I just didn't have the infrastructure and the setup for it.  You know over here I had a small area where I was running cattle on you know I tried to cut corners  
**[0:50:22-0:50:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:50:22):**  with chief fencing and stuff like that. That obviously didn't work out. It's not open range  over here so cows get out you know. It's a big problem if they get hit on the road people are  going to be coming after you. So moved everything over to the east side you know that ranch needed  
**[0:50:40-0:51:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:50:40):**  work and obviously the second encounter problems you get a cow that gets out you know one turns  into 50 of them jumping fences and then you got a bigger problem. So yeah I think we jumped in a  little head first instead of taking our time to plan things out. I mean things are settling down  
**[0:51:01-0:51:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:51:01):**  a little bit but now it's coming down into the you know the marketing side of things.  Trying to figure out you know how to get the best bang for our buck and stuff.  That's always challenging. Like the marketing you know like we were just talking about marketing a few minutes ago.  
**[0:51:26-0:51:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:51:26):**  Marketing in this business is a huge challenge and I think that's why  that's why the sale barn system developed. That's why the big packers developed.  You know and consolidation because it's hard it's hard to manage a production chain that takes two  
**[0:51:43-0:52:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:51:43):**  to three years you know from conception until it's a product in a box. You know two to three  years depending on where you're at on the you know on the input spectrum and managing that supply line  I can only imagine is just ridiculously complex. So when I was at Grass Fed Exchange in Fort  
**[0:52:04-0:52:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:52:04):**  Worth back in May I sat through a panel where there was a guy that was an aggregator for a  grass fed beef company. You know he's the guy that buy the stockers, finish them out,  put the weight on them on wheat pasture and then send them to the plant. There was also the meat  
**[0:52:24-0:52:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:52:24):**  one of the meat plants he dealt with was there and a guy that was starting a new meat plant.  And they basically said as a meat plant operator you've got two really huge scheduling problems.  You've got to find customers for everything that's coming out of the plant  
**[0:52:41-0:52:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:52:41):**  and they've got to be consistent and you've got to be able to provide them with product.  But worse than that is consistency on the front end side.  Is getting the people to bring you the cattle they said they're going to bring you  
**[0:52:54-0:53:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:52:54):**  and the gentleman that was starting up his custom plan I think I wish I could remember  his name right now it's written on one of the 453 legal pads that are floating around here.  But the big problem is you know is guys like you and me you know we'll call and get five slots three  
**[0:53:13-0:53:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:53:13):**  months out. Well then the day comes we only get three of the five caught and we show up with three.  Well that guy was planning on killing you know he was planning on me bringing two more than that.  He was planning on me bringing two more that day and he's got to keep his guys occupied so he might not make  
**[0:53:28-0:53:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:53:28):**  money that day just because we couldn't get two of them caught. You know so I can see a lot of  problems like that you know guys not holding their dates guys not bringing what they said they were  going to bring. That's probably more of a problem for a meat plant operator than a customer not  
**[0:53:44-0:54:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:53:44):**  picking up what they said they wanted. Right yeah and I think you know obviously when I first  started selling beef you know we kind of put trust in people you don't take the deposit like you  probably should and then you start to get burned when guys are backing out like a couple years ago  
**[0:54:05-0:54:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:54:05):**  literally the day before stuff got butchered people are backing out so then you're scrambling  to find because I don't have freezer space to you know store away two steers. Right.  You're scrambling to find that so it kind of came to the point where now if I don't know someone  
**[0:54:23-0:54:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:54:23):**  do deposits you know then at least you got some money in your pocket if someone decides to back out.  Yeah probably a 50% deposit or you know 25% to 50% deposits if somebody is a month or two out for  you know a half or a quarter or you know a hundred pound beef box that's probably entirely reasonable.  
**[0:54:47-0:55:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:54:47):**  Yeah you know because if they have a little bit of skin in the game and they know they've got a  little skin in the game more likely they're more likely to stay in. Right right and the other issue  too is you know you get people even quarters are a pain in the butt but then you get people when  
**[0:55:02-0:55:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:55:02):**  you get the feelers out there they're like oh I'll take an eighth it's like I don't have time to sit  here and do this pie system and break this animal down into all these different sections to  accommodate an eighth it's like so I try to put as much of it back onto people as I can like hey  
**[0:55:17-0:55:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:55:17):**  if you only want a quarter then you need to find someone to take that other quarter to go in with  beyond half and so forth then I'm not out there having to you know find someone to fill that  quarter and stuff so. So when I was talking your Facebook profile. Yeah. Looks like you're in a  
**[0:55:41-0:56:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:55:41):**  whitewater rafting. Yeah I started doing that last year one of my buddies called me up to fill a spot  he started getting into it a buddy I worked with at the state he kind of goes to some extent he  operates like me you know jumps in head first except he tends to jump in head first he'll stick  
**[0:56:00-0:56:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:56:00):**  with that hobby for about a year and then he'll rotate into the next hobby so yeah I got into it  last year and it was a blast I haven't done tons of it this year but I enjoyed it. That's something  that is not really common in Kansas is whitewater rafting if you can believe that. Yeah. A couple  
**[0:56:20-0:56:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:56:20):**  years ago we bought a couple kayaks right like oh we go kayak out on the pond maybe we'll kayak down  the river so we'd had him about a month and it was kind of a nice day and just had a little rain  and my wife is like hey we're not doing anything today let's get the kayaks let's go down the river  
**[0:56:40-0:57:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:56:40):**  okay so I called my buddy used to have used to own a ranch up river from where I live and he had  about four miles of the river running through his property so Kansas isn't like a lot of the  other states okay there's not let me see how to describe this so you can float down a river through  
**[0:57:00-0:57:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:57:00):**  somebody's ranch but they don't have to give you access to get in or out okay okay so it's not like  a river our rivers aren't necessarily you know publicly accessible all of them like they're in  a lot of other states like I'm thinking of Texas you know you drive down to Texas and everywhere  
**[0:57:14-0:57:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:57:14):**  where there's a river a bridge going over a river there's a parking area you know that Texas Parks  and Wildlife was put there or road department so you can get down and enjoy the rivers. Kansas  isn't like that and at least where I'm at maybe it's a little bit different eastern part of the  
**[0:57:30-0:57:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:57:30):**  state or up north where there's actually water in the rivers but the river I'm talking about is the  Medicine River and right now I could probably go get across the river and not really even get my  feet wet there's there's not much water in it so to finish the kayaking story I was like yeah sure  
**[0:57:47-0:58:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:57:47):**  let's go let's go drove up to Ed's river crossing behind his place water looked high looked fine  she puts hers in jumps in takes off down the river I'm like oh cool she's floating that's fine I put  my kayak in I get in and I float about five feet and then we start dragging and I drug that kayak  
**[0:58:08-0:58:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:58:08):**  down like three miles of the freaking river by the time I got there by the time we got down where  our other vehicle was like I'm done is it I'm done not doing this anymore tired of dragging this  thing across sand this is all bullshit yeah well that was kind of the way it was down in Arizona  
**[0:58:25-0:58:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:58:25):**  you drive over these bridges and it's say like for example I can't remember what one of the rivers  were when I went from Kingman down to Phoenix for drill weekends when I was in the guard  it'd be like the San Pedro River you look down there and there's sand there's no water it's all  
**[0:58:39-0:59:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:58:39):**  sand because it's like a seasonal river that only runs during the uh the Matu seasons so I found it  interesting that they classified that as a river and not necessarily a wash because you know growing  up in the midwestern river to me always had water in it so yeah well the the medicine river here  
**[0:59:02-0:59:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:59:02):**  like behind my house it's still running water but 18 miles down that my medicine lodge it it was dry  a couple days ago when I went past I'm not sure how I'm not sure where it actually dries up but  yeah and I've only seen it go dry probably three times in my life two or three times  
**[0:59:23-0:59:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:59:23):**  and this is the earliest I've ever seen it go dry yeah we'll get some rain it'll be our turn  one of these days I guess yeah so now you do the ranch stuff does your wife have a off-farm job  no no she actually doesn't she's um trans since covid happened she closed her massage practice  
**[0:59:45-1:00:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=0:59:45):**  because you know people didn't really want to come in and do that yeah she's got a room set up here  at the house that you know she can do the she can do massage in but mostly she's just transitioned  to taking care of of the homestead and the garden the chickens and the ducks and trying to make  
**[1:00:02-1:00:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:00:02):**  sure we have enough food for the winter but that's been a challenge because of the weather right  well the tomatoes it just didn't matter how much care and time we put into the garden this year  how much water we put on it or anything it was just so hot nothing wanted to pollinate  
**[1:00:22-1:00:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:00:22):**  nothing longer to germinate nothing wanted to pollinate okay and you do all ranch stuff right  yes okay and I pretty much sing I pretty much run it single-handedly we hire some day help I had uh  I've got a young man that helped me this summer he helped me last summer for a little bit but yeah  
**[1:00:40-1:00:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:00:40):**  I'm pretty much a one-man show okay yeah definitely a challenge I'm sure  yeah sure would be nice to have somebody else around to pick up a few of those eight o'clock  at night cows on the highway calls wouldn't it yeah so the worst is when you know everything's  
**[1:00:58-1:01:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:00:58):**  going fine everything's been going fine and then you leave for two days and the first night away  you get one of those calls like hey you got cows on the highway I'm like yeah shit I just got here  I'm three hours away there's nothing I can do so you're trying to call somebody like hey uh you go  
**[1:01:16-1:01:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:01:16):**  go make sure I don't have a cow running around on the highway yeah that's what I'm getting better  about it that family ranching balance is you know I felt like for a while I was a little too into it  and then you know kind of weighed down on family life and relationships and stuff like that I  
**[1:01:36-1:01:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:01:36):**  remember those same times too where you get away for the weekend and all of a sudden someone calls  and says hey you got a cow out and it's like shit and then you got to explain it to your spouse and  then they're looking at you like I thought we weren't going to be dealing with this stuff this  
**[1:01:48-1:02:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:01:48):**  weekend type of thing so I don't think I've ever been able to leave for the last three times I've  left and left somebody around to watch stuff I still get calls yeah I still get calls and I  think that's just a fact of the business that even when we're off quote off there's still going to be  
**[1:02:12-1:02:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:02:12):**  ranch stuff we're going to have to deal with even when we're on vacation in you know Alaska if I  could ever manage to get there yeah yeah because last year when I went home to Minnesota visit  family I had a 45-foot trailer loaded down with like 250 bales of hay I got from a friend over  
**[1:02:29-1:02:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:02:29):**  here left my 550 hooked up to the trailer my buddy drove over and of course you know two hours in the  drive he calls me and says hey the clutch just went out right on the top of the the past in the  construction zone and I'm like shit and it's not my trailer it's a buddy's trailer I was borrowing  
**[1:02:49-1:03:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:02:49):**  you know I'm in Minnesota so I'm trying to coordinate a tow truck to come up tow the car or  the the truck and trailer you know two miles up to the top of the pass where the ski resort is  yeah it's not like you could just call some you know call any towing company right so got it  
**[1:03:05-1:03:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:03:05):**  hooked up moved up there luckily it was dropped right in front of the dot camera so we can keep  an eye on the the trailer to make sure someone didn't decide to rip that thing off and then I  had to coordinate to have someone come and haul the trailer so you know a normal run to haul the  
**[1:03:22-1:03:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:03:22):**  hay over there that would have cost you know 200 and diesel ended up turning into about  two grand yeah exactly so your four dollar uh bale hay that you're hauling over there turned  into about eight or nine dollars a bale by the time it actually hit its final destination and  
**[1:03:38-1:04:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:03:38):**  stuff like that so that sounds like just all kinds of fun sounds like something would happen to me  yeah honestly so your uh your email address invest jaros jaro 21 yeah it's just something I came up  with when I was in college I was trying to get a little bit more into the stock market and stuff  
**[1:04:04-1:04:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:04:04):**  um and for some reason I don't know why I didn't put the s on the end of it it was something that  was already taken or something like that because you know you type in the email address and it'll  be like oh this one's already taken this is taken this is taken so it gets frustrating when I got  
**[1:04:19-1:04:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:04:19):**  most of my email addresses 20 years ago it wasn't really that bad but it's really frustrating now  yeah yeah I've had that same email address for 15 16 years now I just keep it the same  same with my phone number I've been using the same phone number from Minnesota for like 16 years it's  
**[1:04:36-1:04:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:04:36):**  like I'm not going to sit there and send out this all these text messages to tell people hey phone  number change updated in your phone so that's kind of how I am with my email address like I've just  had it for so long it's tied to everything like google account you know resetting that or changing  
**[1:04:55-1:05:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:04:55):**  that would be so difficult right you know so it's easy to set up like redhillsrancher at gmail.com  that one's easy but that one just forwards to my other email account that I've been using for  almost 20 years everything just forwards there so if you email me at redhillsrancher at gmail.com  
**[1:05:16-1:05:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:05:16):**  I'm going to email you back from a different address that's okay yeah and that's the problem  with the phone number too you know you get so many scam phone calls nowadays from all over the  United States I usually got to leave voicemails or text someone saying hey I got your number from so  
**[1:05:31-1:05:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:05:31):**  and so regarding this or that just to get someone to return your phone calls because I see the 952  area code and they're in a 509 area code in a different state and they're like ah this is  probably just a spam call so yeah I if the number's not programmed into my phone I'm not answering it  
**[1:05:51-1:06:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:05:51):**  and if you don't leave me a message you're not going to get called back yeah yeah I had to  had to explain that to a trucking company that was supposed to deliver a pallet of product a  week or two ago well we called you well I see that I've missed about seven calls that day  
**[1:06:08-1:06:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:06:08):**  I don't know which number is yours well and he started to say something I said how many  spam phone calls do you get a day about your car's extended warranty  much I said do you answer your phone when it's an unknown number well no I said do you then why are  
**[1:06:23-1:06:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:06:23):**  you expecting me to right and he didn't say anything I said did your guy leave a message  he didn't say anything I said I know he didn't leave a message because if he did I would have  called him back there's no difference between an unknown number popping up the phone and  
**[1:06:38-1:06:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:06:38):**  a number popping up that doesn't leave a message like I'm not going to call you back I'm not going  to waste my life calling back all these spam numbers sorry yeah so I'm trying to think if  I got any more questions for you Brian you obviously like the corianis and you're satisfied  
**[1:06:57-1:07:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:06:57):**  with the bulls you're using now is that the direction you're heading in yeah I would say  I'm satisfied so far the the two sim coriente calves that are on the ground I'm really happy with how  they look just have to see how they grow over about you know the next six months  
**[1:07:17-1:07:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:07:17):**  I'm not sure what I'm gonna what I'm gonna come back with and cover my cows with next year  I don't know the Michona South Pole bull he's mine I've got access to the cimital bulls  so I don't know what I'm gonna do next year and like I said you know if if it existed like if my  
**[1:07:35-1:07:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:07:35):**  neighbor had a homozygous black herford pulled bull that was raised on grass that's what I'd  want to use next year there is a herford breeder that's got some really really nice looking bulls  that's only about 30 35 miles away that might be the direction I go next year like I'm I'm  
**[1:07:57-1:08:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:07:57):**  thinking about herford and crossing back to herford next year and are you carrying over  crossbred heifers are you keeping your heifers on I haven't sold any of my heifers oh captain  100 of my heifers 100 of my heifers okay and you know you you were talking about earlier about you  
**[1:08:21-1:08:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:08:21):**  know splitting your heifers off with a different bull I get that I've been I don't have the same  bull in so like I'm not going to be having their I'm not going to have any risk next year of a  father breeding a daughter okay so we're going to be going to be rotating bulls next year but my  
**[1:08:38-1:09:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:08:38):**  heifers all of my heifers have stayed with the cows so in 2020 we did I did a I did about a 42  day fence line weaning put them right back last year we did about a 60 day wean I sent the heifers  to wheat pasture and they came back it was a little less than 60 days later this year I'm  
**[1:09:05-1:09:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:09:05):**  going to let the cows do it I'm just going to let the cows go ahead and kick the calves off  about a third of them have already weaned their their spring calf  okay and there's some of them that like I got a little 650 pound cow that's got a 300  
**[1:09:24-1:09:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:09:24):**  300 325 pound calf that's already weaned yeah so we're just gonna I think we're gonna do that we're  gonna we're gonna try to let the cows kind of fall a little bit of playing and nutrition  catch them a supplement and let the cows naturally wean the calves off nice and have you had any  
**[1:09:44-1:10:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:09:44):**  calves hit the ground out of your your crosses yet yeah out of those semital bulls yeah I've had two  of them oh okay those are out of the okay all right yep everything else that's everything that  we bred like all the spring calves this year were were Angus okay and what do we have last year  
**[1:10:05-1:10:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:10:05):**  I was co-mingled with my buddy last year so we had like six or seven different  black Angus bulls out at one time okay how many how many cows do you have again  I've got about 80. 80 of them okay and how many bulls are you using to cover them  
**[1:10:22-1:10:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:10:22):**  two two all right so you're kind of in the same ballpark as me I think we've got two for about  50 and you know at one point we only had the the original Shorthorn bull he ended up covering  the majority of the cows his first year because we only had one bull that year  
**[1:10:41-1:10:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:10:41):**  you know Kit Farrow is probably the best salesman on earth right now well at least in the livestock  business and if he's to be believed you know 50 60 bull 50 to 60 cows is what a bull should be able  to cover right our grandfathers that were ranching 100 years ago they were probably expecting their  
**[1:10:59-1:11:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:10:59):**  bulls to cover 50 to 60 cows yeah and it just blows my mind now that we have that we have bulls  that cost five or ten times what they did 100 years ago that can only cover half the cows  that seems like we're going backwards right yeah you know I talk about the two biggest costs in  
**[1:11:25-1:11:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:11:25):**  ranching cow depreciation and fed feed costs and one of those we take care of in the front end by  buying coriander and that's the cat appreciation the fed feed cost you know coriander is definitely  helped with that too because I feel they're a lot more efficient you know per pound of body weight  
**[1:11:41-1:12:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:11:41):**  but then getting past that is crap I forgot what I was gonna say  oh breeding costs so you know let's go buy a ten thousand dollar bull and put them out with 25 cows  that's a pretty that's a pretty heavy service cost per cow right we can have a five thousand dollar  
**[1:12:10-1:12:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:12:10):**  bull that would cover 50 cows you know now your service cost gets really reasonable I think it  just seems like you know these really high priced bulls yeah I get there's retained semen interest  and that's where the you know that's where a lot of times the money can be made that's not my  
**[1:12:28-1:12:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:12:28):**  program like that's not my business my business is you know raising cows on pasture not doing AI crap  and in a lot yeah so I need a bull that can travel that can perform that's not going to go backwards  in this kind of country that can still cover 50 cows yeah and I'm not sure that there's I don't  
**[1:12:48-1:13:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:12:48):**  know that there's really a commercial bull breeder that's that's making that kind of an animal  you know I think there's I think there's some bull breeders that do the world a lot of disservice  by by really feeding their bulls hard and feeding them a lot and I get it I get why they want them  
**[1:13:10-1:13:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:13:10):**  to look good they want them to look good they want them to look you know super big and super fleshy  I'd rather see that at the end of the breeding at right now like show me your bulls right now  at the end of breeding season on the worst on terrible pasture conditions you know  
**[1:13:30-1:13:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:13:30):**  hot it's dry the grass isn't that great show me your good looking bulls now  that's what that's what I want to see I want to see a bull that at the end of the season  looks as good as he did at the beginning of the season after servicing 50 cows  
**[1:13:44-1:14:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:13:44):**  that's a bull that's worth money yeah yeah after zenith you still get the looks and stuff oh you  guys run 40 any type of thing but I mean I love it I mean same thing I did a lot of you know a  lot of the stuff I bought was private party but you know I did the same thing as you went to the  
**[1:14:00-1:14:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:14:00):**  sale barn one year I was at the sale barn quite often and buying cows for I got a cow calf pair  for 300 and it's coriander cap on our side but it you know that first year the cow paid for herself  yep so it's hard to lose money on a coriante pair at three or four hundred dollars yeah real hard  
**[1:14:26-1:14:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:14:26):**  yep yeah and I got a couple one year private party sale I got five cows it was a three for one deal  all of them had caps on their side and they were bred back to either angus or coriander bulls I'm  like I can't pass up that deal that's kind of where I struggle too those deals pop up and it's  
**[1:14:42-1:15:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:14:42):**  like I probably shouldn't be buying more cattle right now you know so I said that I went to the  sale barn I don't go to the sale barn with money because I'm an idiot at an auction like I am a  complete idiot whether it's a farm auction sale barn I'm an idiot I keep my checkbook at home  
**[1:15:03-1:15:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:15:03):**  and I tell an order buyer what I want and then I sit there on tv then I sit there on a computer  and I watch them buy the shit that I told them not to buy yeah yeah yeah so I haven't been to  the sale barn for a while because I needed to kind of cut back because you know those deals  
**[1:15:16-1:15:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:15:16):**  would pop up and I'm like damn you know like you know there was a couple sales I was at new guys  that work at the sale bar and I'm like I'm glad I wasn't there there was coriandese bred back going  for like 185 dollars I had like whole herds I'm like I would have walked out of there with 44 cows  
**[1:15:34-1:15:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:15:34):**  that I had no idea what I was going to do with so that's why I keep my ass out of the sale barn  yeah because I'd come home with all kinds of colored weird horn shit that I wouldn't know  what to do with or have a plan just because it was there and it was cheap yeah exactly I'm kind  
**[1:15:51-1:16:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:15:51):**  of the same way so there was a there was a watusi heifer that was probably eight or nine months old  that went through the ring one day and you know I'm trying to get a hold of my buyer I'm like buy  her buy her buy her and by the time I told him that I wanted her he made one bid the auctioneer  
**[1:16:11-1:16:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:16:11):**  took one more bid and sold her for like 87 dollars I'm like oh you let that go like I would have  bought I would have paid 100 bucks for that come on man he's like it was a watusi what are you  gonna do with it like um shut up doesn't matter I wanted it yeah exactly yeah that's why I would  
**[1:16:30-1:16:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:16:30):**  uh I know some of the dairy farmers around here I used to buy them called out dairy cows from you  know selling them at five years old and then I'd buy them breed them back and then I'd grab a  couple calves to graft off graft onto them after they capped out and I got three calves right there  
**[1:16:44-1:17:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:16:44):**  nurse on the cow because I'm not going to sit out there and melt the dairy cow twice a day so but  I probably wouldn't either it's like work yes I mean it was a work graft in the calf on there I  mean once in a while you get lucky with a nice cow that let any calf in the world nurse on but you  
**[1:17:05-1:17:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:17:05):**  get some of them that were you got to tie them up for a week on end until that calf is you know  party enough and aggressive enough to suck up the beating the cow's given it so  that's not something I have any experience with  
**[1:17:23-1:17:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:17:23):**  is trying to graft calves yeah I mean I've tried you know if I lost a calf skin and a calf  dust on the skin over the top of it I mean guys say it works but I never got had any luck with it  so I've seen it work and I've seen it not work yeah you know like everything else and sometimes  
**[1:17:43-1:17:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:17:43):**  sometimes something like that will not work even though you did it exactly the way you did it  the last 10 times that it worked why didn't it work now yeah and sometimes we don't always  can't always figure that one out yeah I get left scratching my head every a lot too  
**[1:18:01-1:18:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:18:01):**  yeah I think my oldest jersey cow was like nine nine or ten I think she had like eight calves  like four with me she'd let any calf nurse on her she was an easy one so but  I've got a 10 year old cow that just had one of those Simcross calves and normally she'll come  
**[1:18:22-1:18:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:18:22):**  up and she's just the most gentle thing eat out of my hand lick my hand come up rub on me  nope she had that calf I can't even get within 50 yards of her and she has that she has that  little thing gathered up and all I see is tails and feet it's like no you're not you're not gonna  
**[1:18:41-1:18:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:18:41):**  come over here with that tagger you're not coming over here with that tagger I don't tag my calves  in the pasture they'll get tagged when we come in we you know when they get shots or when they get  yeah we don't we don't worry about tagging or weighing at birth because  
**[1:18:58-1:19:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:18:58):**  those things have two feet of spear on either side of their head yeah yeah exactly and have  a very healthy respect and they know where the ends of those horns are at all times yeah yeah  so is there anything we left on the table you need to cover today  
**[1:19:14-1:19:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:19:14):**  no I think that was about it I like connecting with other  Cori any ranchers you know what do you think the what do you think the future holds for the  coriante and coriante cross cattle you think that's going to be you feel like that might  
**[1:19:32-1:19:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:19:32):**  be a growth market in the next couple of years I think it will be just because of the  you know the cost I mean you go to the sale barn you buy a private party you spend 1200 bucks on a  purebred beef cow that you get 700 for a calf at the sale barn you know it just doesn't pencil out  
**[1:19:52-1:20:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:19:52):**  plus all the cost for feeding the animal and stuff like that and the overall size too you know  because my ex-father-in-law was a retired cattle nutritionist so I learned a lot from him you know  would you rather feed a six to eight hundred pound animal or a 12 to 1500 pound animal for the winter  
**[1:20:08-1:20:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:20:08):**  time and you know out on grass and stuff like that and I think the biggest thing for you know  guys that they're not ranching full time is the less maintenance the better I mean if you throw  a cow on pasture and not have to worry about it all the time it's you know a win-win for you when  
**[1:20:29-1:20:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:20:29):**  you're at work full time so I see growth I feel like more people are getting into it  I'm kind of hoping that  that in about 18 months when the industry is starting to rebuild out of the wreck that we're  
**[1:20:48-1:21:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:20:48):**  about ready to have I think in about 18 months when guys are start 18 months two years 20 years  2024 when guys are really starting to rebuild their cow herds in the aftermath of the wreck  we're about ready to have that's when I think that that's when I hope that the genetics that  
**[1:21:07-1:21:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:21:07):**  I'm developing that you're developing are going to be really valuable right efficient small frame  can exist on not much without many inputs I think I think we're about ready to turn the corner where  those are going to be very desirable and very valuable so I think that's what I'm hoping for  
**[1:21:24-1:21:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:21:24):**  very desirable and very valuable yeah I mean some of these calves that come out of the Corianis as  yearlings they look like a purebred beef cow and they're a fraction of the size so  yeah I'm hoping more people get into it I mean there's guys like when I was doing my research  
**[1:21:44-1:22:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:21:44):**  there's a family in Iowa they've raised they raised this all purebred Corianis but they raise  them from start to finish correct a consumer would be if you know after a few years so but  yeah you know there's there's a lot of people that will talk negatively on Corientes and the  
**[1:22:05-1:22:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:22:05):**  quality of meat and they've never had any and they've never raised any they've never been  around them they just repeat what somebody else has told them you know all right if you're ready  to get out of here I think we can go ahead and get out of here uh I think there's a couple other  
**[1:22:23-1:22:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:22:23):**  people I should you should reach out to about your podcast Brian all right I've got my big list here  I'm ready go ahead hit me with a few recommendations oh well you got Toby down there and then my  fiance's good friend her mom's big cattle broker in Montana and actually just opened up her own  
**[1:22:42-1:23:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:22:42):**  processing plant um let me get the name of it her name is uh Nicole Wines W-I-N-E-S and it's Big Sky  Processing LLC okay I think she'd be a good one for you to reach out to um and then as far as  breeding I mean my bull breeder is a good one too she does a lot of plays around with genetics and  
**[1:23:05-1:23:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:23:05):**  stuff like that um Green Gate Farm is the name of her ranch or her cattle operation down in  Grand Mound Washington and her name is uh Christy last name is  Kringesman K-R-I-E-G-S-M-A-N  
**[1:23:29-1:23:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:23:29):**  she was the short-earned uh Charlet breeder that's where I get all my short-earned bulls  from but yeah that'd be a good one especially the Wines I mean she's been big in the cattle  industry in the Montana, Dakota's area for for years so I kind of have I kind of have it in mind  
**[1:23:48-1:24:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:23:48):**  to do a series with a few processors with some people that are doing doing processing so that  might be a good one to fit into that series yeah they just opened up I can't remember like  Livingston, Montana they just opened up their facility you know after the pandemic with the  
**[1:24:03-1:24:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:24:03):**  the backlog of stuff she opened one off  I know where I'm going uh where I'm taking my cows in a couple of weeks  they were a custom plant that primarily did uh did deer yeah and since COVID they've taken the  
**[1:24:20-1:24:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:24:20):**  opportunity to do cows too I use that too I haul them up to the guy because I got tired of getting  on the schedule here around here I just saw them up there but I got to pick the non-hunting seasons  to haul the animals in because that's his business during the hunting season so I usually got to go  
**[1:24:34-1:24:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:24:34):**  March through July so that's it. All right well where can we find you on social media if anybody  if you want people to do that or I mean you can hand out my email address to people or post it  on yours I don't I just have a personal Facebook account we don't have anything yet for the launch  
**[1:24:51-1:25:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:24:51):**  okay I can do that awesome I appreciate it Brian enjoy the time well it's been great I appreciate  you doing us today Tony and uh enjoy the rest of your day all right sounds good you too  This episode has been sponsored by C90 Ocean Minerals visit c90.com to find a distributor  
**[1:25:10-1:25:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/83-Tony-Jaros-Corrientes-in-the-PNW-e1obpp3#t=1:25:10):**  near you or call to request a quote today that's s e a dash nine zero dot com and don't forget to  mention that Ranching Reboot sent you. Have a great week y'all.  