---
title: 96 Damian Mason It Take Balls To Be Wrong
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2023-01-02)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:00:00):**  What's happening everybody? Welcome back to the Ranching Reboot Podcast for our first episode of  2023. I'm your host Red Hills Rancher and this is episode number 96. Despite what I said in the last  episode Joel Salatin will not be appearing today due to, well, let's just call it a scheduling  
**[0:00:15-0:00:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:00:15):**  malfunction. This episode is sponsored by our amazing patrons on patreon.com forward slash  Red Hills Rancher. If you'd like to show your support for the podcast check the link in the  show notes. If you need more Ranching Reboot content in your life be sure to check out my  
**[0:00:30-0:00:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:00:30):**  YouTube channel. I've been dropping all the archived episodes that we've built up over the  last year and a half. They're all on YouTube and new one releases every day. I just wanted to take  a moment to remind you about my Discord server. Discord is a great place to network and chat off  
**[0:00:44-0:00:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:00:44):**  of social media. We offer a welcoming and inclusive community where you can connect with like-minded  individuals, share your interest, and participate in discussions. If you'd like to come join the fun  and discussions on Discord and see what you're missing out on drop by the Ranching Reboot  
**[0:00:57-0:01:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:00:57):**  Paddock, our private Facebook group. Check there for a link or if you're having trouble with that  email me at redhillsrancher.com with Discord in a subject line and I will email you a link.  This episode also sponsored by Bobo Links from Blue Nest Beef. Bobo Links are my new favorite  
**[0:01:13-0:01:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:01:13):**  meat snack. Simple and clean ingredients, gluten-free, no grains, hormones, or antibiotics,  or dyes. Naturally preserved by fermentation, no nitrates, corn syrup, or liquid smoke. Bobo Links  are tangy and delicious, individually wrapped for maximum freshness. I keep one in my pocket for a  
**[0:01:29-0:01:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:01:29):**  healthy midday snack while I'm on the Ranch. Try Bobo Links today, check the show notes for a link,  and use the code BOBOREBOOT for $10 off your first package. All right crew, I need to come clean. For  the last two years I've been taking grass-fed beef organ supplements. A few months ago I reached out  
**[0:01:44-0:01:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:01:44):**  to several different brands and I'm pleased to announce that I found a brand that I can align with.  Introducing OneEarthHealth.com grass-fed and finished beef organ supplements. Look, we all know  that the liver is one of the most nutrient-dense foods available. Packed with iron and B vitamins,  
**[0:01:58-0:02:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:01:58):**  it's a great source of choline and folate. Sourced from grass-fed and finished cattle with no fillers.  I take the beef liver blend and the organs blend which includes spleen, pancreas, kidney, heart,  and yeah a little more liver. I take them every day and I feel great except one to forget. Then  
**[0:02:14-0:02:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:02:14):**  I notice I have less energy and less focus. Check them out. Go to www.OneEarthHealth.com  forward slash Brian Alexander or click the link in the show notes.  Well, Damian Mason, welcome to Ranching Reboot. It's good to have you here.  
**[0:02:41-0:02:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:02:41):**  Got maybe a little bit of a short episode today because we are both short on time.  So let's dive into it. Give us the elevator speech. Give us your elevator speech.  I don't have an elevator speech. People always say that especially in ag.  
**[0:02:55-0:03:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:02:55):**  I don't like talking to people on elevators nor do people like to be talked to on elevators. So  I always found it funny. Give us your elevator speech. My elevator speech is  I awkwardly look at the number on the little thing when it tells you what floor you're getting to  
**[0:03:08-0:03:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:03:08):**  so that I get to the correct floor. If you mean give you 20 seconds about Damian Mason.  I'm a farm boy from Indiana. I was raised on a dairy farm, conventional normal dairy farm of its era.  It would now look very quaint. It's antiquated frankly because things have evolved so much with  
**[0:03:25-0:03:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:03:25):**  automation and consolidation in the dairy industry. But we milked 60 cows farmed about 500 or 600 acres.  Most of it was rented. My grandfather came to this country and milked cows as a herdsman.  So I'm a second generation and very much that hard-working farm kid background.  
**[0:03:43-0:04:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:03:43):**  Went to Purdue, have a degree in agricultural economics, worked in corporate America for a couple of years.  Quit my job and pursued political comedy. Turned political comedy into my business starting in 1994.  Ran with that pretty strong until the early mid-2000s and then made the big switch to becoming  
**[0:04:01-0:04:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:04:01):**  instead of a political comedy guy being an ag guy who's funny. And then increasingly over the time  people come up and say, hey you're really funny but you actually know stuff about this.  Well yeah I know stuff about this. I read the Wall Street every day. I travel. I've created my own business.  
**[0:04:15-0:04:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:04:15):**  So they said can you make more business points? So over the years I sort of became known as the  keynote speaker for business and agriculture. That's what we do a lot of. I speak at conferences.  I've written two books. If you're listening and not viewing you can look at the books.  
**[0:04:30-0:04:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:04:30):**  You can look over my shoulders here. There are two of my most recent books, Do Business Better,  which is geared to small biz and self-employed entrepreneur types. And another book called Food Fear,  which probably is mis-titled. It should just be called The Past, Present, and Future of American Agriculture.  
**[0:04:47-0:05:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:04:47):**  So that's what those are all about. I produced the Business of Agriculture podcast.  I have been doing that for over five years. I have a tremendous following and  listenership and even sponsors there. And I also on the side I produce content for a group called  
**[0:05:02-0:05:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:05:02):**  Extreme Ag, which is a group of forward-thinking mostly row crop broad acre large acreage farm  farmers. And we do a lot of product trials and we produce content about what the trials are,  the practices, the new methods we're doing and all that. So I keep pretty busy in ag.  
**[0:05:21-0:05:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:05:21):**  And I travel all over. I live half the time at my farm in Indiana and I live half the time in  Arizona because I hate winter. And I'm coming to you from my winter home right now in Arizona,  which is actually my winter office. People always get that wrong by the way, Brian. Oh man,  
**[0:05:36-0:05:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:05:36):**  you got there in Arizona for the winter? You missed a bad winter. And my wife says,  did these people not keep up with your social media feed? You were in Des Moines and Mankato,  Minnesota. Then from there you were in Saskatoon. How the hell do they think you've missed out on  
**[0:05:50-0:06:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:05:50):**  any winter? I'm like, yeah, I do speaking engagements at business meetings for ag,  which of course takes me all over to the cold country.  And you know, us ag producers, we like to have a lot of meetings when it's, you know, cold and  
**[0:06:02-0:06:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:06:02):**  crappy out. So we're not out, not feeling the pressure to be outside working and we don't mind  being cooped up in a conference room or an office. Yeah. And you know, a lot of audiences, when you  say you speak at ag conference, again, I live half the year in Arizona out here. They think you speak  
**[0:06:17-0:06:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:06:17):**  at ag conferences, you go and do farmer meetings. I'd say the one fifth of my audiences are farmers  or ranchers because there's so much ancillary industry, as you know, pharmaceutical, calf  medicine, biological crop inputs, fertilizer, feed, seed, finance, crop insurance, machinery,  
**[0:06:41-0:07:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:06:41):**  I mean, processing, food processing, distribution. So I get around the table of agriculture pretty  well, as you might say, from cranberries to, you know, ethanol. Very cool. Very cool. So you've  probably seen a lot of the corporatization and centralization of ag happen over your career.  
**[0:07:03-0:07:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:07:03):**  Yeah, well, I mean, it's kind of interesting. Being a political comedian, Brian, means to be,  I always say you start with observation. I was an observant kid. I've been paying attention for a  long time. You know, I used to read like Time magazine or watch media, even when I was a kid.  
**[0:07:22-0:07:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:07:22):**  And so I've been doing this for a long while, whether it's about current events, political  stuff, or agriculture, the industry that you and I both work in, and we're raised around.  There's this perception that Oh, God, things are so different today than they've always been.  
**[0:07:35-0:07:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:07:35):**  Well, yeah, technologically, yes. Right now a guy is doing the Twitter in a tractor that's driving  itself and doing the work that four tractors would have been required to do 60 years ago. Okay,  that's changed. Yes. But you know, the consolidation, you said you use the word  
**[0:07:56-0:08:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:07:56):**  corporatization. That's not something that's new today. It's not something that's new last year.  You know, in my book, I talk about it, I think the number is about 8 million, it's six and a half or  8 million, I can look it up right now. And I will when you're when we when we have a pause here, but  
**[0:08:13-0:08:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:08:13):**  I talk about consolidation, because this whole thing of well, you know, them great big corporate  farmers now didn't used to be that way when we've been getting bigger. For since like the pilgrims  got off the boat, you know, you got better at growing corn. So you did two acres and all of a  
**[0:08:30-0:08:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:08:30):**  sudden, you could do 20 acres. And then the guy down the road said, I'm shitty at growing corn.  So you know what, you grow corn on my field, and I'll go over here and work in the in the in the  place of the paddle wheel where they grind the corn. That's kind of how the evolution of all of  
**[0:08:44-0:09:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:08:44):**  society has happened. So have I witnessed the corporatization or consolidation, I think might  be a more accurate thing? Yeah, but then we all have. And it's been going on for a long time. It's  lamented. It is complained about it is resented. But I'm not sure a that it's anything new. You  
**[0:09:06-0:09:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:09:06):**  know, we had like 8 million farms in America in the 1930s. And today there are 2 million farms.  It didn't happen because some evil corporate titan came around and said, sell me your farm  ground or I'm gonna sick my private security guards on you. It happened because a lot of  
**[0:09:22-0:09:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:09:22):**  people are out there not doing very well. Right. You know, there's, you know, there's nostalgia for  the old days, Brian is like, okay, have you seen the Have you read the Grapes of Wrath? Have you  studied what the farm economics of the 1930s looked like? So to say that we lost a whole  
**[0:09:39-0:09:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:09:39):**  bunch of farms during that time because of some evil and I'm not in any way like, Oh, Mr. Ra Ra  corporate. I'm just saying it's kind of happened from an evolution of economics. And some of it,  I'm not sure that you would argue against. I talked about that in my book as well, when you say  
**[0:09:56-0:10:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:09:56):**  the good old days, you know, the cows had brucellosis. The child infant mortality rate in  rural America 50, 70 years ago was atrocious. I mean, almost enough to make you cry. So let's not  pretend that the good old days were always so good. And I guess I'll close it out on this. And  
**[0:10:15-0:10:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:10:15):**  we can get back to the corporate part and the economics, which is one of my strong suits. My  father told you was a herdsman's son. He broke his arm when he's an eight year old boy, and got  compound fracture, compound fracture poor kid out in rural America, you know, your dad's a  
**[0:10:32-0:10:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:10:32):**  herdsman milking cows for people you ain't got a lot of money. It's before penicillin, it's the  1930s. They've stuck a cast on his arm and got gangrene. They amputated it at the elbow came in  the next day still smelled gulp gangrene. The doctor smelled a gangrene. It's ah shit Harold,  
**[0:10:45-0:11:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:10:45):**  we didn't get it all. And then went and cut his arm off a second time. I use that barbaric  illustration about my father's little boy to point out my dad didn't go on and on about how  good the good old days were. When you think of some of the things that happened back in that era,  
**[0:11:04-0:11:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:11:04):**  we still had immigrants doing the labor. They were still poor, and you're talking about the 1930s  here. And to boot, we had kids that got a broken arm and all of a sudden lost their arm and spent  70 years without a left arm on account of it. So let's be careful about how today things are  
**[0:11:23-0:11:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:11:23):**  terrible. And somehow things were good back then, I guess is the illustration I'd like to use.  And I totally respect that, you know, we have made some very significant technological advances,  you know. But some of those I kind of question, you know, great example of, you know, getting an  
**[0:11:45-0:12:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:11:45):**  arm injury and having to have amputations. Would that have happened in 1950 and 1980 in 2010?  Yeah, probably not. Because we know more things. We have better access to information,  we have better access to medical care. But what we also have access to is we also have access to  
**[0:12:07-0:12:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:12:07):**  a lot of things that we don't understand, which I'm thinking of like some of these chemical weapons  that we've been using to form with, you know, insecticides, herbicides, pesticides, over the  years. And we can go back like DDT, we remember DDT, right? We had to quit using DDT because we  
**[0:12:27-0:12:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:12:27):**  almost extincted the California condor. And it was hurting bald eagles. And it seems like we  could have learned a lesson there about mass use of pesticides and herbicides and what they did  down the food, you know, on down the food chain. And that was a tangent I really didn't intend to  
**[0:12:48-0:13:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:12:48):**  chase. So, go. Well, you told me we were going to before you hit the record, but you said we're  going to cover demographics, inflation, land access, and the fallacy of feed the world,  and then you went off on DDT. And you and I are an absolute polar opposite ends on that one,  
**[0:13:03-0:13:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:13:03):**  because I can point out, the National Science Foundation or National Academy of Sciences,  as it were, stated at one point that they believe that DDT, an overused insecticide to your point,  overused insecticide that did have a well was amazingly effective, was why it was so overused,  
**[0:13:21-0:13:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:13:21):**  and it was incredibly affordable. National Academy of Sciences says that worldwide, they think that  DDT saved 500 million lives from things like dengue and malaria. DDT was not banned. In fact,  I've got a whole episode of the Business of Agriculture podcast devoted to the DDT comparison  
**[0:13:40-0:13:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:13:40):**  to climate change and the hysteria crisis perpetuation that is not really based in science  or fact. So, did DDT have some harmful effects? Well, first off, we overused it. And same with  glyphosate. You could say that. I mean, you're probably on the same page as that. Glyphosate,  
**[0:13:57-0:14:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:13:57):**  tremendously effective, but way overused. It's the world's most used herbicide. Why? It's cheap,  and it's generally effective. It's been overused. Now we have all sorts of glyphosate tolerant  plants, weeds. But on the DDT front, here's the tough part. They used the eagle,  
**[0:14:15-0:14:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:14:15):**  the activist groups used the eagle, the American symbol, and said that eagles are going to go  extinct because of DDT. And that actually wasn't really true. Big thing is that's a kind of a  bigger thing here, Brian, about activism versus science and reality. And this would be of all  
**[0:14:32-0:14:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:14:32):**  things, a time to talk about that with all the COVID and whatnot, and some of the findings that  we're going with there. But we don't need to get into that whole ship. Big thing I think you're  pointing out there is we've got progress. And you're going to say probably maybe what I think  
**[0:14:52-0:15:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:14:52):**  maybe you're saying there is, is progress always good? Or do we deem things advances that also  might have a few, some of the advances come along with a negative? I'll tie it in. Okay. So  as farms get bigger, corporate highs, and we have these large for-profit corporations that  
**[0:15:17-0:15:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:15:17):**  fund research projects, fund research centers at universities that fund lobbyists that take out ads  and print magazines and on TV, talking about how great the chemicals they're developing are for  the world. And the problem I get to is corporations are run basically to generate a profit. And that's  
**[0:15:42-0:16:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:15:42):**  their mission. And everything else comes secondary to that, environmental effects, human effects,  everything kind of comes secondary to that, the holy altar of corporate profits. And I'm not  saying that's evil because we need a certain amount of that to maybe drive progress in the  
**[0:16:00-0:16:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:16:00):**  world. But when we get to a point where it's to these companies benefit, they do the math and they  say, hey, yeah, there's some negative effects from this, but we can make billions of dollars  before anybody finds out about it. And I don't want to say anything specific. Do you understand  
**[0:16:25-0:16:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:16:25):**  what I'm saying? Do I understand what you're saying? I have been yelled at for three years  that I'm anti-science by people that lean a certain way politically because of my stance  against the COVID crusaders that want to shut down the economy or worse yet, some of the hard left  
**[0:16:42-0:16:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:16:42):**  started saying that we should have government agents go door to door and forcibly vaccinate  these people who are too ignorant to understand science. And I said, first off, do you realize how  similar you are to very, very bad things that have happened in the last couple of hundred years,  
**[0:16:59-0:17:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:16:59):**  historically? Do you have any comprehension of how you just sounded like the Nazi forces,  et cetera, the Gestapo, for God's sakes, the brown shirts? But anyway.  Before that they were screaming that Trump was a Nazi, Trump was a Nazi, Trump was a Nazi, and then  
**[0:17:14-0:17:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:17:14):**  oh, COVID happens. Oh, now we need to go door to door and give everybody vaccines. You don't  understand what you sound like right now. No, they don't know how to do that.  No history. So anyway, to that point, Pfizer, Pfizer's, I think the number is 28 billion that  
**[0:17:29-0:17:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:17:29):**  they made just off of the second round of the booster. So, and Pfizer also has pushed now for  protections and has it so that they cannot be sued for anything, any side effects that should  come about because of it. So what you're saying, and this is probably your listeners saying,  
**[0:17:48-0:18:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:17:48):**  what the hell's happened here, Damian? You just were on this rant about the benefits of DDT,  and now you're telling me the evils of Pfizer. I'm telling you that first off DDT, and there's  a couple of big differences here, Brian. DDT was first come across, discovered, formulated in the  
**[0:18:03-0:18:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:18:03):**  late 1800s. It actually then got redone in 1939 or 37, I think it was. Anyway, the point is,  it was right before World War II. A Swiss chemist is out there piddling around with it, and he finds  its insecticidal properties because it was not developed for that originally. And then it was  
**[0:18:22-0:18:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:18:22):**  found to be one of the most amazing insecticides that you've ever imagined, better than the stuff  you're spraying out of your raid can at home. And it was very inexpensive and easily made.  So that's why it became so good. And you're talking, and this is, I talk about it in my  
**[0:18:38-0:18:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:18:38):**  Ag book, we lost more Marines in the South Pacific to malaria than we lost to Japanese bullets.  So the United States military began using DDT. Another case to be made, DDT then had a pretty  long track record. And it had been in use since the 30s. It didn't get banned until the 70s.  
**[0:18:59-0:19:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:18:59):**  And it was again, all because of activism, Rachel, what's her name, Rachel Carson and  Silent Spring, the book. So using that example, this COVID vaccine, which is really not-  It's not a vaccine, it's experimental gene therapy.  
**[0:19:15-0:19:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:19:15):**  Experimental gene therapy was tossed together in fast fashion to respond to a media perpetuated  and politically perpetuated crises that the truth is didn't have almost any deadly effect,  any fatal effect on anyone that was healthy or young, right? It was the children,  
**[0:19:38-0:19:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:19:38):**  people your age, my age. If you were morbidly obese, had diabetes and three other contributing  causes to death, or you're quite old. So anyway, and you're not allowed to say that because  the group that is the COVID Crusaders. But I guess my point is I can question the Pfizer  
**[0:19:56-0:20:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:19:56):**  thing all day long because I can follow the money. You can't do that with DDT. In fact,  yes, it was it large chemicals that made it? Yes. I'm sorry, chemical companies. Yeah,  the Seba Geigies of the world back in the day, if you're old enough to even remember some of these  
**[0:20:11-0:20:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:20:11):**  companies. But it was so cheap, it was not very profitable. In fact, when DDT was banned in the  United States, the chemical companies here weren't that upset because they didn't hardly make anything  manufacturing it anyhow, right? It's kind of like it had moved on. You can't say that about the  
**[0:20:30-0:20:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:20:30):**  Pfizer vaccine, which is proprietary just to them, right? It's not. And also it was thrown together  in about three months, whereas the DDT thing had a track record going back to the 1800s.  I would say another thing. You can't tell me that Pfizer's drug has saved 500 million lives in the  
**[0:20:49-0:21:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:20:49):**  third world the way the DDT did according to the National Academy of Sciences. You know that Brian,  there's an interesting stat. We used to lose some years in the American Southeast. And you're  talking going back to the 40s, 30s, 50s. Remember the American Southeast was not the new South like  
**[0:21:04-0:21:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:21:04):**  it is now. It was damn poor, right? I mean, all the, and we still have the poverty levels of the  Mississippi's and the Alabama's and Georgia, West Virginia, et cetera, the Southeast. But it was  worse back then. We used to lose some years, a million people would die of malaria in the United  
**[0:21:25-0:21:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:21:25):**  States. After World War II, the government embarked on a huge DDT mosquito eradication plan.  By 1952, there were three cases of malaria in the whole United States of America. So going from like  losing a million Americans to malaria to three cases in the whole country. So I can make that  
**[0:21:43-0:22:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:21:43):**  case about DDT. I can't do that for the Pfizer thing because as you said, it's not even really  a vaccine. It was rushed to say the least, and it was politically motivated. And it was obviously  pushed through an regulatory process that never would stand up to scrutiny if it was truly the  
**[0:22:01-0:22:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:22:01):**  science. So anyway. Yeah. My doctor friends tell me that aspirin, like there's no way that aspirin  would be approved as a drug today during the current, you know, under the current FDA guidelines  that we couldn't have aspirin because nobody can tell you how it works. And I asked him, I said,  
**[0:22:19-0:22:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:22:19):**  Jeff, isn't that true for pretty much most medicines? And he goes, well, yeah, we really  don't know how they work. We just kind of know mostly what they do most of the time.  Kind of a little bit scary. Maybe it's a little bit frightening to figure out, you know, to see  
**[0:22:35-0:22:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:22:35):**  maybe these scientists don't really know what they think they know.  Well, let me tell you, you said something about following the money about, you know,  with the research, with the Pfizer thing. And, you know, like to kind of get away from COVID,  
**[0:22:54-0:23:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:22:54):**  to kind of get away from COVID, that follow the money, I think is really applicable if we're  going to talk about like the great sugar lie. And I think to some extent, I think the follow the  money that to me says that there's science, quote, science and research being bought.  
**[0:23:16-0:23:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:23:16):**  And I wonder, you know, just like they're saying, oh, the COVID vaccine is safe, this is safe,  this is safe. Well, who says it's safe? Your study that's paid for by your company said it was safe.  Where's the independent verification? Where's it's really fishy that, you know,  
**[0:23:40-0:23:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:23:40):**  trust us, we say it's safe, because our research says it's safe. But if it's not,  you can't ever sue us because we're legally protected from liability.  Yeah. And Brian, you're missing on the other part of it. If you then imagine, imagine, and, okay,  
**[0:23:55-0:24:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:23:55):**  maybe your listeners are not old enough members, you know, Jim Jones, the guy in a tragedy where he  took 1000 or so of his of his devote cult followers to a third world country, and then they got them  all to commit mass suicide. And you look back and say, oh, those people are crazy. How would anybody  
**[0:24:10-0:24:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:24:10):**  believe that? And you just you can just hear that you can hear the afterthought now? Well, they were  drinking the cool as we're drinking, by the way, dear listener, if you have no idea what I'm  talking about, because Brian's nodding his head, he does. Google, maybe don't use Google use a  
**[0:24:23-0:24:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:24:23):**  different, use a different search engine that might actually not filter what you're allowed to see.  Jim Jones guy in a tragedy, drink a Kool Aid. That's where it all came from. And so when some  of us that are more skeptical, that are more well read, that have this thing called critical  
**[0:24:41-0:25:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:24:41):**  thinking capacity, started looking at this COVID thing, and said, Good God, I've seen this before.  And it becomes this thing that and I read an article, and it was pretty in depth about the  psychology of humans. And we are it's a tribal thing. It is very much a tribal thing. It's  
**[0:25:01-0:25:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:25:01):**  better to be in the group for survival purposes, than to go against the group and then be outcast,  because you get eaten by a saber toothed tiger. Okay, so it's better just to go along with the  group. And who was the group led by? Is it the smartest scientist? Generally not. It's the person  
**[0:25:17-0:25:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:25:17):**  that can command an audience who might be an alpha male or an alpha female who can speak  articulately, then who also is not against doing whatever it takes to be the leader. And that might  be lie, deceit, you know, be deceitful, whatever those things are. And if you start looking at the  
**[0:25:34-0:25:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:25:34):**  humans as a tribe, and looking at us being out there, and it's us, a fire and a saber toothed  tiger out there in the wilderness, the point is the average human would rather be in the group  and wrong than be outcast from the group and be right. It takes a lot of balls and backbone  
**[0:25:52-0:26:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:25:52):**  and fortitude and I mean, and thick skin to say the least to go against the narrative. And that is  exactly what you got to do. So when you start following this Money Bride, I know this is an  agricultural podcast, but it doesn't matter. You know, I've used the DDT thing. It took balls and  
**[0:26:09-0:26:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:26:09):**  backbone for me to stand up to you on your podcast that you invited me on to tell you I disagree with  you about DDT. And I believe that some of those stats that you actually referenced about the bald  eagle are actually overstated by cause groups. And the thing is, that's what does not happen.  
**[0:26:24-0:26:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:26:24):**  There's no disagreement because I'm terrified of being outcast. I'd rather be in the group.  And you know what? The whole COVID thing or GMOs or climate crisis, I can bring up any one of these  that have a tinge of science and say, it's like the worst element of us being at grade school.  
**[0:26:42-0:26:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:26:42):**  Imagine you and I are at the grade school on the playground and the boys pick it on you because  you're bald and have a beard and you smell like cow shit. And so I think it's funny to go ahead  and jeer you also. And then seven other people that are not as tough, they're kind of weak.  
**[0:26:59-0:27:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:26:59):**  Well, are they going to come on and pick a stick up for the kid that smells like cow crap and  has bald and has a beard? No. They're going to jump in on the jeers. That is exactly what has  happened. So when you talk about whether it's the size I cringe anymore now when I have, I mean,  
**[0:27:13-0:27:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:27:13):**  cringe, I did it first. Now it's more like, Oh God, this again, the science, you're a denier.  When it becomes this thing, you can just see, just imagine you're on that playground and imagine that  I'm the kid that smells like cow shit, but it's because I said, no, I'm questioning this. I  
**[0:27:31-0:27:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:27:31):**  disagree with Pope Fauci, or I don't know that you're right about this genetically modified  organism. Or I'll tell you what DDT had a lot of positive attributes globally in terms of its  benefit. It takes a lot of balls and backbone to be that person. When there's not a lot of people  
**[0:27:48-0:28:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:27:48):**  on that playground, they'll come over and say, I want to see things from that perspective. So  that's what you're talking about. And so to pretend that scientists and follow the science are,  first off, we'll get to the money part, but first off to pretend that they're not humans  
**[0:28:02-0:28:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:28:02):**  is a big, huge flaw. And I started saying this way back with the COVID craziness. And I said,  these doctors are just really highly educated practitioners. They don't get taught critical  thinking. They get taught when a person comes into the hospital and they've got infection underfoot,  
**[0:28:22-0:28:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:28:22):**  here's what you do. They're not usually out there on the front edge of, hey, here's this really  crazy idea, this critical thinking thing. No, they're just essentially really what, seven years  of highly practiced, practicing. That's what they do. So when it says that, and I haven't got into  
**[0:28:43-0:28:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:28:43):**  the money part, but I've talked a lot. You're the one supposed to be talking all the time.  No, I generally don't talk a whole lot. I just try to ask a few questions and  let it run. So yeah, following the money. Are we still getting along, even though I disagree  
**[0:28:56-0:29:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:28:56):**  with you? Oh man, you can disagree with me all you want. I had a really great episode last  summer with Don Shiffel being the head of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.  And let's just say that we don't see eye to eye on much at all. I think that they might be the  
**[0:29:18-0:29:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:29:18):**  most useless organization on the planet in terms of what they get paid and what they allegedly do  with the money they get paid. And that's a bigger symptom of the check-off programs,  which some of them are very effective. The pork is the best check-off program I have ever worked  
**[0:29:33-0:29:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:29:33):**  with and I've worked with them a whole bunch. Dairy and beef, arguably the two worst and biggest  bureaucratic wastes of money going. Yeah, and follow the money if you're really going to  go down a rabbit hole, follow the money about where your check-off dollars go and what they  
**[0:29:51-0:30:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:29:51):**  actually do and try to get some answers from those people. It's a scam. To me, I see the beef  check-off as a scam in order to line the pockets of the big packers and the few feeders that have  the sweetheart deals. You're also forgetting the number of employees, check-off programs,  
**[0:30:16-0:30:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:30:16):**  check-off programs like beef and dairy become little governments of themselves.  Once you get hired, you never ever get fired. The money rolls in just like taxation every day.  And the people that are giving you their money have no choice but to give you the money.  
**[0:30:31-0:30:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:30:31):**  And then they love to say, yeah, but you have a voice in this. We appointed this rancher out here  to be on our board. Okay, so what that really means is they take them to Denver once a year,  buy a mistake dinner and play them with drinks and say, look at what our beef program is doing  
**[0:30:45-0:31:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:30:45):**  for you. We're beef check-off. And they say, yeah, great. Give me another drink.  Anyway, story for another day, waste of money. I would do everything I could if I were a beef  producer to check out of the check-off. And in fact, I did when I was a 13-year beef producer.  
**[0:31:02-0:31:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:31:02):**  I sold all my stuff privately. And that's the move that I'm going to. I think that there's so  much wrong with the beef markets and the commodity markets as they exist. And let's face it, they're  basically too big to fail. I don't think the government is going to come in and break up the  
**[0:31:19-0:31:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:31:19):**  big four packers or mandate that they divest, they increase competition in the marketplace.  That's never happening. Right? JBS, Cargill. Well, no, the government just threw a bunch of  money at what was supposed to then be grants to create small-scale packers and processors.  
**[0:31:37-0:31:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:31:37):**  Well, those are just going to be plants that the big guys can come up and buy at 10 cents on the  dollar in the next 10 years when they create another black swan event down the line to  manipulate the price of beef. I don't disagree. And there's another part of it. I had somebody  
**[0:31:52-0:32:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:31:52):**  on here that was on my podcast. That's a huge and they look at meat markets all day. And the amount  of money that was going to be tossed at this, it was going to, it would have added like,  I don't know, 3% of capacity or some ungodly amount of small. I mean, it's a drop in the ocean  
**[0:32:10-0:32:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:32:10):**  is what I'm saying. Hey, let's go back to the bigger thing there about the money. Okay. That's  what you're talking about. And I gave the example of the cave people, the tribe. They'd rather just  go along with the group and be wrong versus being outcast where you might get eaten by a saber-toothed  
**[0:32:26-0:32:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:32:26):**  tiger. I think the better people understand my illustration or hear it, it might make sense  than about a whole bunch of stuff. And then you even have to do some soul searching. How many  times have you been wrong and you've been jeering, you've been jeering the person that actually went  
**[0:32:41-0:32:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:32:41):**  against convection convention and only because it was easier for you to go along with the group and  becomes very much like bullying and group bullying and all that. So anyway, don't think for a second  that those scientists, now we're talking about just someone that has maybe a master's degree or  
**[0:32:59-0:33:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:32:59):**  a PhD in whatever, biology, chemistry, name it. And then it's employed probably by a corporation,  maybe by a university. And then to stay employed, you've got to do some research, let's say.  But this research you're being paid to do is being paid for by some woman or by some company  
**[0:33:21-0:33:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:33:21):**  or by some group or by some grant that the politics of the moment are then going to say,  well, we got you this grant so you can hang around in your lab with your white coat on and  then go on CNN and tell her by that you're a scientist, but by God, you're going to make sure  
**[0:33:39-0:33:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:33:39):**  you find this. And everyone says, oh, that no one would ever do that. I'm like, are you stupid or  naive? Follow the money. I get hard, people hard time me. Oh, well, you only go and speak to those  ag corporations because they pay you and you tell them what they want to hear. I'm like,  
**[0:33:56-0:34:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:33:56):**  I just told you that I think the NCBA is a biggest ripoff and you should, it should be disbanded.  I'm not a sellout. I speak with conviction about the things that I know based on my research and  my experience and my knowledge. But the point is I also know I work for other people's money.  
**[0:34:13-0:34:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:34:13):**  So if I am speaking at a chemical company, I'm not going to get up there and spend 60  minutes on stage telling them all that chemicals, the chemicals they make are evil.  I don't necessarily believe that anyhow, but I'm in a pretty good situation. I say what I think,  
**[0:34:30-0:34:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:34:30):**  and I understand that I work for other people's money, but I have never let it get to where I  can't say no to something. If you're a scientist, you don't run your own business and you go to work  for this thing and they tell you, here's what science we're going to work on. You're probably  
**[0:34:46-0:35:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:34:46):**  going to make sure that this is what you do and that don't think for a second. And then the other  and then the other part of it about being terrified. So follow the money. Yes, everybody  does what's in their economic best interest. Usually that's just econ 101. You do what's in  
**[0:35:00-0:35:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:35:00):**  your economic best interest, self-interest. And then the other part of it is the group thing.  If 11 scientists say this and you're the 12th one out here saying, no, you know what? I conducted a  completely different battery of tests and experiments. And I found the absolute opposite  
**[0:35:20-0:35:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:35:20):**  of what you're saying. And then it becomes a political thing. And then it becomes, what are you?  Some kind of a right-winger, you are Nazi, you're this or that. So that's where then group think  happens in the scientific community. Not to mention if it makes money for you to perpetuate,  
**[0:35:39-0:35:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:35:39):**  well, 11 scientists said this, only a lunatic would ever disagree with the findings. We at Pfizer  know, we know what the good science is. So buy our stuff and only a lunatic would disagree and  ever think that Pfizer's medicine might somehow be, have a side effect. I guess what I'm saying  
**[0:35:59-0:36:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:35:59):**  is it's the money. It's also the human side of it. Humans are still just humans. They don't want  to be cast away from the fire. They don't want to be not part of the group unless they're going to  be really, really strong person to go against the group. Yeah, I can definitely see that. And  
**[0:36:19-0:36:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:36:19):**  going back to your previous example of getting a middle school, get bullied on a school yard.  I was that kid. I wasn't afraid to speak up when something wasn't right.  But I was also usually the one getting beat on. I was usually one of the first ones to speak up  
**[0:36:40-0:37:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:36:40):**  in class when a teacher wanted an answer. And I probably got beat on a bunch for that.  So I know what it's like to be the outcast and be the brunt of bullying or abuse.  Maybe that's given me some pretty thick skin because I've never really had that strong burning  
**[0:37:02-0:37:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:37:02):**  desire to bend my morals or bend how I feel about the world to comply with a larger group thing to  be a part of a group. I've always felt like I'll find my tribe instead of trying to compromise or  change who I am to fit into someone else's. Does that make sense? It makes sense completely. So  
**[0:37:26-0:37:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:37:26):**  that's why I'm just telling you it takes a lot of balls and backbone to not just join in the jeering  and the ridiculing section. Go on. I mean, like I said, the playground, take the playground to  Twitter. It's the same thing. I have people in ag, I have alleged ag personalities that ganged up  
**[0:37:46-0:38:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:37:46):**  on me and then what they go and get their toadies to then ridicule me, which I'm like, what you  think typing some shit on Twitter? Like, it's like, you know what? You wouldn't say that if  I stand here. Oh no, we're fighting. I'm like, I'm just telling you that if I was standing there face  
**[0:38:00-0:38:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:38:00):**  to face, you wouldn't say that. Keyboard warrior, you can do that. So I see it all the time. But  again, we can go back to all this whole thing. Take the ag example of GMOs, take the example of  insecticide, like DDT, take the ag example of climate crisis. When you so much as question it,  
**[0:38:16-0:38:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:38:16):**  then nobody wants to go against the grain. And then when you figure there's, it's multiple  things being multiple things, Brian, being incognit. Okay. You've got an entire industry.  Let's just go with the climate crisis. You've got a whole bunch of people that are going to make a  
**[0:38:34-0:38:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:38:34):**  bunch of money. And I mean, boat loads of money, whether it's getting a contract from the government  for this new thing, stimulus, or is it the green new deal or whatever the hell they call it,  the inflation reduction act, which a bunch of it is just ladled and ladled and ladled on top of  
**[0:38:52-0:39:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:38:52):**  more ladles full of money, which is my money and your money being thrown at green energy.  If you're going to make boatloads of money with solar farm development and wind power and all  this kind of thing, you're all for it. And then of course you make sure you find some scientists  
**[0:39:08-0:39:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:39:08):**  that say, Oh God, climate crisis. And the stuff, the claims they make have become increasingly  ludicrous, but it just shows that once you keep establishing the layer of bullshit, you can get  more ludicrous on top of ludicrous. We have now elected politicians, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez,  
**[0:39:27-0:39:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:39:27):**  last year saying that we were really going to, we probably have 12 more years. Like earth is going  to end in 12 years. They start making these, I mean, it's outlandish and it somehow isn't met with  this out land, like the way an outlandish statement should be met with. And so you start  
**[0:39:47-0:40:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:39:47):**  hearing this again and again, again, if your financial incentive is to perpetuate this,  it becomes then, Oh, let's come up with even more big and shock, more fear, more fear.  And so it's not, it's not questioned. It's not, it's not derided as the  
**[0:40:06-0:40:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:40:06):**  outlandish statement that it is. And then it becomes the new, the new normal,  which is a thing we had to hear a lot about the last three years.  Normal is just a setting on a dryer anyway. Right. And what do you think about it?  
**[0:40:20-0:40:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:40:20):**  Normal is just a setting on a dryer. And when people say it's not fair, I say fair is a place  where they award blue ribbons to pigs and you buy cotton candy. Does not ever talk about fair, fair  as it pertains to anything because a fair is a place where they give blue ribbons to pigs.  
**[0:40:37-0:40:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:40:37):**  I like that better than mine. I've always said life is not required to be fair, but  I think I like yours better. So I know we're kind of short on time today, so let's circle back.  Keep saying that we're going to talk for an hour. Good God. How much more time do you think these  
**[0:40:53-0:41:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:40:53):**  people want to hear from Damian Mason? I don't know. They'll probably listen almost every  minute that we record. So let's, let's talk about, you know, we're talking about following the money  and inflation reduction act pumping, I don't know what another $1.8 trillion spending bill that  
**[0:41:12-0:41:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:41:12):**  they just passed last week. Those are two separate things. 1.7, 1.8 trillion was just new spending.  It was all just completely full of pork. The inflation reduction act was about a trillion  before that, just a few months ago of which I think a little more than half of it was all tied  
**[0:41:29-0:41:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:41:29):**  to green new deal. Again, solar and wind and all sorts of all manner of just giveaway. And then,  you know, the general motors, general motors got a whole bunch of incentive out of it. So it's  government motors once again. So it's, it's tragic to be honest with you because it creates,  
**[0:41:49-0:42:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:41:49):**  it creates outcomes that are not anywhere close to economically incentive and economically  justified. I should say they are justified because you're chasing the money, but it was not,  it was not from, it was not from a organic reason. It was from a government tossing money at it. So  
**[0:42:06-0:42:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:42:06):**  then it becomes, Oh, I can go and buy an electric car now because I get $15,000 of tax credit for  doing so. Well, would you have ever bought an electric car before? No. You even want electric  car. Well, no, but I'm getting 50, you know, so it becomes distortions if you will.  
**[0:42:23-0:42:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:42:23):**  Well, government subsidies are distortions in every market that they're in, including crop  subsidies. There's no question. You try and explain to people that, that, not enough people  are, not enough people have a historical perspective period and then take our own business.  
**[0:42:42-0:42:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:42:42):**  There was a thing just until 20 years ago, not even less than 20 years ago called LDP.  My brother works for us department of agriculture. I said, I said, you know,  I bought my first farm in the year 2000. I said, what the hell is this LDP? It's loan  
**[0:42:57-0:43:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:42:57):**  deficiency. I said, so what's it mean? He's like, well, we're giving you a loan because  there's deficiencies in the crop. I said, so what's that mean? Like, well, if corn is selling  for a dollar 86, we're going to give you the difference between a dollar 86 and $2 and 22  
**[0:43:14-0:43:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:43:14):**  cents. So what's that mean? He's like, well, we think, you know, to be profitable, you mean  to be 220. I said, oh, so it's a price floor. It's a price floor. It's just giving money away.  It's a price floor. Anybody that's taken economics, at least by the second or third class  
**[0:43:31-0:43:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:43:31):**  or 200 level price floors and price ceilings do not work. They attempt to  circumvent. They work and that they give away a bunch of money or create distortions, but they  don't work in the true economic sense because there's attempts at circumventing the laws of  
**[0:43:50-0:44:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:43:50):**  supply and demand simply. Okay. And so minimum wage, you tell people, all right, let's talk  about minimum wage, minimum wage or loan deficiency payment, or rent or whatever.  Or rent control in New York city. Those would be three things that are all price floors or  
**[0:44:10-0:44:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:44:10):**  price ceilings. Correct? So what they're saying is you can never pay more than this. You can never  pay less than this. All right. Minimum wage law. I always get my liberal friends worked up when I  say, hey, you guys want a minimum wage increase? Yes, it needs to be $15. I said, hell, you know  
**[0:44:27-0:44:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:44:27):**  what? That doesn't seem generous enough. If we're going to just arbitrarily pick a number, which is  what minimum wage does, because it's not tied to true forces of supply and demand. I said,  if $15 is what would, and they said, it would feel good because these poor people. I said, hey,  
**[0:44:42-0:45:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:44:42):**  if $15 makes you feel good, let's feel 10 times better. Let's make minimum wage $150 an hour. Huh?  Well, it's 10 times as much. It'll make you feel 10 times better. Well, you're being ridiculous.  I said, and so are you. Because if the marketplace has determined, I own a dry cleaners and I start  
**[0:45:01-0:45:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:45:01):**  offering $5 an hour, nobody will show up and press my shirts. I offer $7, nobody will show up. And  finally at 850, I get, somebody will come in there and press the shirts. By God, I just found what  the marketplace demand is. That's how the marketplace should work. To arbitrarily just  
**[0:45:23-0:45:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:45:23):**  come up with some minimum wage law. And I said, so if you're going to make 15 bucks, let's do 10  times 150. Well, then what would happen? I said, well, then Damien, instead of charging $8,000 to  go out and do a speech, I'm going to charge a hundred times more than that. Cause I have to,  
**[0:45:38-0:45:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:45:38):**  because the point is if you're telling me that everything's going to be a hundred times more,  a hundred times better, I'm going to charge a hundred times more also. So I'm going to just,  and you use the example like, well, no. I said, okay, so you think that we should bring up those  
**[0:45:51-0:46:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:45:51):**  people, but nothing else is going to go up from there. Because now the dry cleaner is going to  say, well, wait a minute at 15 bucks. When I was, I had somebody that was doing it for eight bucks.  Ah, crap. I'm going to have to charge twice as much for everything that person touches.  
**[0:46:05-0:46:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:46:05):**  So they don't understand that price floors, um, is what a minimum wage is. And that's what a loan  deficiency payment did. It said, you'll never make less than call it, you know, $2 and a quarter for  a bushel of corn. And I don't know the exact numbers. I'm pretty close going back historically  
**[0:46:20-0:46:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:46:20):**  on ag economics. And so I'm sure someone right now that was in all the LDP programs in Iowa,  say, oh, you know what you're talking about? It was $2 and 21. Okay. Whatever the number is,  it was a price floor. It's very similar. It's an exact comparison to minimum wage in that it's  
**[0:46:34-0:46:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:46:34):**  attempting to circumvent what the real cost, I'm sorry, the real price in the market, uh,  for something would be a price ceiling would be like the rent controls in New York city.  They say, you know what rents too high. So you can't ever charge. You can't charge more than  
**[0:46:50-0:47:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:46:50):**  a thousand dollars a month for this apartment or whatever it should be $2,000 a month with  this apartment. And the reality is someone would pay 4,000. And so what happens all sorts of  things happen. Uh, you start, you start sleeping with the landlord, uh, you know, you, you pay,  
**[0:47:09-0:47:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:47:09):**  pay under the table. You do all kinds of things to circumvent the distortion of a price ceiling.  Yeah, for sure. And this commodity programs, like they exert a similar pressure on land price.  Well, you could argue that they prop it up. Yeah. Uh, my farm ground in Indiana that I own  
**[0:47:36-0:47:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:47:36):**  has is worth a lot of money because, uh, I can rent it. Uh, in this case, I rent my farm ground  to a dairy operation. He has alfalfa and corn on my fields that he then feeds to his cattle.  Okay. You can rent that out, but here's the question. And we're talking about  
**[0:47:55-0:48:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:47:55):**  business and economics and agriculture. It's I w I'm going to take the standpoint and the viewpoint  that there's almost nowhere you can go in this country and buy land and make it cash flow with  any sort of agriculture operation. That's probably true. And I think that's been that way smile.  
**[0:48:18-0:48:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:48:18):**  I'm taking a picture of you and I for social media while we're doing this dear listener.  I'm uh, I've heard that. And I will say that I have been hearing that since sitting at the  dinner table sometime in the seventies. So to pretend that that is a new phenomenon would be,  
**[0:48:35-0:48:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:48:35):**  uh, inaccurate and also historically own astute has been that way for a long, long time. So,  um, and, and, and you know what, that is news to a lot of people, friend of mine,  Purdue roommate year or two ago, uh, before this most recent run-up in farmland values,  
**[0:48:53-0:49:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:48:53):**  said something, but I said, Hey, there's a chunk of ground. I said, I'm, I'm okay,  but I might be half. Would you want to go have these? And then he said, yeah, now if I put down  like 5%, then will that flow? And I said, well, first off, you can't put down 5% on farm ground.  
**[0:49:07-0:49:21](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:49:07):**  You got to put down like 35%. Huh? I said, this is not like a house in the suburbs that you're  going to live in with your kids. I mean, I said, you're gonna put down like 35% and even then  you'll still have to probably kick in some each month or each year because the cash rent isn't  
**[0:49:21-0:49:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:49:21):**  going to quite cover it. So you mean to have a cash rent won't cover even 65%. I said, probably  not been that way for a long time, Brian. I'm not sure we were going with that other than to say,  if you thought that was something that's only happening right now, land prices are obviously  
**[0:49:35-0:50:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:49:35):**  very high. My part of the world looks like we're up 30% just year over year. I could.  Well, so the direction to go with that is, so is land access. Okay. So demographically speaking,  average age of farmers and ranchers in America now 60, which has only gone up for the last 10 years,  
**[0:50:01-0:50:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:50:01):**  right? Forever. It's probably been going up forever. Up and up and up and up and up.  People aren't living any longer. Land costs keeps going up and up and up. And it's so far detached  from the value of production that how do we get the next generation involved in agriculture  
**[0:50:23-0:50:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:50:23):**  economically? I'm not sure that it's detached. The words you just said were detached economically or  detached from the decoupled, but the production value is decoupled from the purchase price.  Not necessarily true. I tune into, because my Alma mater, I tuned into Purdue,  
**[0:50:47-0:51:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:50:47):**  department of agricultural economics puts out webinars. I try to watch them to keep my head  sharp about things that maybe I'm not as on. They were saying in their June webinar, and I granted  we're recording this in December. So six months ago, they said, this looks like the biggest  
**[0:51:05-0:51:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:51:05):**  numbers on net income that we have seen since the mid late seventies, which was in, I know you're  out there in cow country and in grasslands, but my part of the world where it's corn and soybeans  predominantly, they compared to this year, 2022 to the seventies, which were the golden era,  
**[0:51:26-0:51:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:51:26):**  right? For awhile, one of our big super cycles. And so when you said it's decoupled,  it's not necessarily decoupled at all. 2022, we saw record farm income, net farm income is an  absolute record up like 18 or 14% year over year. And last year was one of the fourth biggest  
**[0:51:44-0:52:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:51:44):**  net farm incomes. Granted, we have inflation, but also the farms made money. So if farm ground is  selling for a lot of money and it's because farmers and ranchers made a bunch of money,  farmers more than ranchers, I know, because beef wasn't quite as good. So you'd have a hard time  
**[0:52:04-0:52:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:52:04):**  saying it's decoupled. And then if you're a pure investor right now, you'd say, okay, stuff in my  part of Indiana selling for 12 to $14,000 an acre. But if it rents for 350, you can run the math.  Let's see 350 just for the front of it, we'll take it on to 14,350 divided by 14,000.  
**[0:52:25-0:52:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:52:25):**  It gives you a two and a half percent return. If it's cash on cash, that's not counting some  property taxes you're going to pay on it. You'd say two and a half percent return,  who would invest their money on two and a half percent return? Well, right now you're getting  
**[0:52:39-0:53:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:52:39):**  negative 19 in the stock market. Your CDs are probably about a half a percent. And then there's  this idea that farmland is always been acceptable to make a low return, but it gives you a return  every year. And it also is something you can go out and touch. You can feel it as tangible  
**[0:53:00-0:53:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:53:00):**  and it supposedly has got upside. Now, some of us that live through the seventies, more importantly,  the eighties know that farmland does not always go up. I saw it go down by 60 to 75%,  60 to 70% for sure in the 1980s. You think we're heading to see another one of those early eighties  
**[0:53:20-0:53:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:53:20):**  type corrections again in our agricultural land price as we move out of this, as we move  deeper into this era of hyperinflation that we're kind of seem to be getting into?  Something made me pause the other day. I filled up my Ford F-150, about 30 some gallons of gas.  
**[0:53:44-0:54:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:53:44):**  It was $3.13. Because most people don't even think and connect the dots between fuel, energy,  and everything, agriculture, but they are attached at the hip in many regards.  So the inflationary situation, I started saying two years ago that we were being lied to  
**[0:54:07-0:54:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:54:07):**  when they told us it was transitory. And I'm like, what does that even mean?  You don't print $1.5 trillion and call it fucking transitory inflation.  That's how. But when I filled up with gas, I'm like, okay, these energy prices have stabilized  
**[0:54:24-0:54:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:54:24):**  and come down a little bit. On land, I think we saw a big run. Agriculture people, as you know,  hate to pay taxes. And they love land because it's same reasoning, touch it and feel it. You can pass  it on to your kids. You can go out there and drive around on it. Ag people like land. I own land and  
**[0:54:42-0:54:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:54:42):**  I wouldn't have to. I wouldn't have to. I just, I own it because I went back and bought it.  I didn't inherit it. I like going to my farm ground and I would own more farm ground,  but I wouldn't buy farm ground at these multiples. Do I believe to your bigger point,  
**[0:54:59-0:55:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:54:59):**  is there going to be a correction? The last chunk of farm ground I bought,  I guess I did buy a little bit this year, but it was just more changing an arrangement with my  sister. But we're up about a hundred percent in four years. So you tell me historically an asset  
**[0:55:17-0:55:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:55:17):**  class that has gone up, say single digit percentage each year. And I know there's going to be people  say, what are you talking about? In the last 20 years, it's gone up 11. Okay, let's go further  than that. Let's go back 60 years. Okay. The era of modern agriculture, but from the time we  
**[0:55:34-0:55:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:55:34):**  invented the John Deere 4020 on, okay, let's call it the more modern era. So in the last 60 years,  the asset class of farm ground has gone up, you know, mid single digits to high single digits,  probably at best it's gone up seven to 10%, whatever. That's not 100% in four years.  
**[0:55:52-0:56:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:55:52):**  So does it, would it be healthy for it to have a correction? Probably would. Probably would. Do we  need to see a washout? Do we need blood in the streets out here in rural America? Well, God,  I hope not. You know, like I said, we saw from 1981 to about 83, 84, 80 to 83, 84, we did see  
**[0:56:13-0:56:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:56:13):**  a 50 to 65, 70% loss of value on farm ground and assets. The story I always tell people is  I'm not going to carry on about walking uphill to school in the snow and all that. I'm just going to  tell you this. I know that in the 80s, there were some agricultural assets that were so  
**[0:56:34-0:56:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:56:34):**  underwater, the bank wouldn't even repossess them. It was easier for them to not repossess the asset  because it was worse for them to put it back on their books than to just let it go. That's a true  story. Are we going to see that? I don't see that happening. Interest rates have doubled. That's the  
**[0:56:53-0:57:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:56:53):**  other thing, Brian, a lot of people get wrong and say, oh, interest went from 3% to 6%. It went up  3%. No, it went up 100%. It went up 100% because going from three to six is a doubling. The rate  is 6%, but it didn't go up 3%. It went up 100%. When you say, okay, when you double the cost of  
**[0:57:15-0:57:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:57:15):**  something, if I doubled the cost of my F-150, if I doubled the cost of this pin, it should have an  impact on demand. I doubled the price of it. Borrowed money, if you look at it as the product  that it is, meaning it's a product, if I doubled the cost of borrowed money, there should be less  
**[0:57:36-0:57:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:57:36):**  demand for it, which means after these cash buyers get through their mattresses and what they've been  sitting on cash, you would think that there could be... I personally, and everybody's like, oh, well,  you're not the real estate expert. Well, I've called a bunch of them before. I called a 30%  
**[0:57:54-0:58:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:57:54):**  deduct from the last high and I was almost to the penny, right, from 2011, 12, 13. I said,  we're going to go down about 25 to 30%. We need to. I could see that. I could see a 25 to 30%  deduct and I could see it being almost healthy to do so. First off, borrowed money is going to be  
**[0:58:10-0:58:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:58:10):**  one of the reasons. If other asset classes begin giving a return, when my neighbors out here in  suburban Phoenix started asking me about farm ground, it tells me that we're at a peak.  When the doctors in Scottsdale, Arizona want to know whether they should buy farm ground,  
**[0:58:29-0:58:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:58:29):**  I'm like, oh no, that's time to sell. What if we did go back 25%? We're talking about giving back  one year's appreciation in my part of the world. In the Corn Belt, we're up about 30%. Let's say  we did a deduct of 30% and we did that in the next two years. That means we'd take two years to give  
**[0:58:46-0:59:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:58:46):**  away what we went up in one year. Would that be the end of the world? Well, only if you were 100%  leveraged at the highest price when you bought all and most farm owners aren't. Most farm owners  usually accumulate as they go along and have a pretty good equity position.  
**[0:59:04-0:59:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:59:04):**  So where do we go from here? Moving forward in the future, I think it's going to be less affordable  for individuals to be able to afford to purchase land to start an agricultural operation.  Because of how high land prices are, we're seeing more, let's say corporate ownership or  
**[0:59:30-0:59:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:59:30):**  group ownership or absentee ownership of these farming and ranching operations.  The big danger that happens to me is, we talked earlier about how almost every corporation is  a for-profit corporation. They're designed to return profit to their shareholders. That's what  
**[0:59:48-1:00:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=0:59:48):**  they do at expense of everything else, animals, people, and environment. As land gets too expensive  for individuals to afford, we get more and more corporate and detached ownership from our  agricultural lands. Before we started recording, Damian, you asked me about my ranch. Just for the  
**[1:00:11-1:00:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:00:11):**  listeners that weren't here or haven't heard it before, about two-thirds of the ranch belongs to  my family partnership. I pay a lease on and I own the other third. For me, this is less of a problem.  But going as we move forward into the future, I have the benefit of being ownership interest  
**[1:00:39-1:00:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:00:39):**  and management and labor. If there's something wrong on the ranch,  I have to look at it through the lens of being all three of those people from management, from labor,  and from ownership. Management is, can we do it? Ownership is, does this fit into my long-term  
**[1:00:55-1:01:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:00:55):**  vision of it? Labor is the guy actually going out and doing the work. If I want to accomplish an  overall larger ecological goal over a long term, I'm not beholden to shareholders return a profit  every year. I don't have to justify my investments in infrastructure or my investments in  
**[1:01:14-1:01:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:01:14):**  or my investments in maintenance to anybody else but me. It puts me in a position to where  I have to take care of the land and I have to pass it on. I've at least got to try to improve  it, make it a little bit better while I'm here before I pass it on. I really wonder  
**[1:01:39-1:02:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:01:39):**  if that, how to recreate that incentive structure, that long-term incentive structure to make things  better and to improve land when we have corporate ownership or group ownership that's detached.  If you're asking me, do I have an answer? I don't. I went back and bought farm property.  
**[1:02:02-1:02:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:02:02):**  I don't have to own farms. It's one of the things I do. I did it because I am a farm kid and I  like the farm. I don't operate it. I rent it out. I have operated and obviously I grew up doing it.  I did make hay for a while on part of my property. That picture behind my shoulder right there was  
**[1:02:20-1:02:39](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:02:20):**  some of our curvy pasture fields I made in the hay fields. If it was owned by a corporation,  would the person from the corporation go out and walk their dogs and see a tile blow  out like I do and then take a picture of it and then call the excavator and say,  
**[1:02:39-1:02:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:02:39):**  hey, in the next couple months, can you get a guy out here? We got to fix some tile.  If it was owned by XYZ corporation, would they walk through the woods lovingly and look at the  trees and talk about timber management? I don't know. Here's the reality. Georgia Pacific isn't  
**[1:02:53-1:03:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:02:53):**  the timber management business. They are a corporation. They're pretty damn good at  timber management. Weyerhaeuser is a timber management company. I guess my point is to  pretend that it would be the collapse of our food system is probably catastrophically,  
**[1:03:08-1:03:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:03:08):**  predictably wrong. To say that there wouldn't be maybe much love or attachment, that's certainly  true. If I own that dry cleaners that I just talked about that's looking for an employee  at eight bucks an hour, I'm going to care a lot more. I'm going to be in there a little  
**[1:03:26-1:03:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:03:26):**  earlier, stay a little later than if I just work for a chain of dry cleaners.  That's probably true. We get nostalgic about the whole thing about could somebody else  do this? Could the young person do this? That's a real thing, but it's not new. The cost of entry  
**[1:03:47-1:04:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:03:47):**  for commodity production has been prohibitive for a long time. Let's do this. Rather than talking  about could we do a thing where we compare it to history and we're usually doing it with  rose-colored lenses, let's do it with anything else. I want to produce corn and soybeans.  
**[1:04:03-1:04:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:04:03):**  They're commodities. What's commodity production favor? Scale, economies of scale, size.  You'd say, all right, it's going to be hard to do, but you know what? Your dad does corn and  soybeans. If you maybe get educated, work in town, have a job, and also farm on the side,  
**[1:04:22-1:04:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:04:22):**  maybe you could grow and all that. Fine. What if I then said, hey, I want to produce  asphalt shingles. What? Yeah, I want to produce asphalt shingles. It's a commodity.  Owens Corning is a real big manufacturer of them. Why the hell would you think that you  
**[1:04:44-1:05:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:04:44):**  have this even entitlement to be able to produce asphalt shingles?  As a guy out here in rural Indiana, don't you know that Owens Corning and three other companies  make all the asphalt shingles in the country? Then you'd say, all right, are your asphalt  
**[1:05:02-1:05:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:05:02):**  shingles working on your house? Yeah. Is it keeping the rain up? Yeah. Did you overpay  for those asphalt shingles? No, I went to the Home Depot and they had four different brands  there and I bought this one. Okay. I'm only giving that illustration because, again, most  
**[1:05:16-1:05:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:05:16):**  people in ag never think of it from that perspective. If you grow corn and soybeans and  wheat, you are a commodity producer, just like the company that makes asphalt shingles or coal  or aluminum cans or aluminum siding or anything, copper pipe, anything that is a commodity.  
**[1:05:34-1:05:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:05:34):**  To say that somehow I want to just embark upon this, if I got out of college and I had my  agricultural economics degree and I'm 23 years old and I've got zero money, you know what? I want to  go and farm. You're like, ah, it's so sad. That kid can't go and farm. He's got zero money,  
**[1:05:51-1:06:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:05:51):**  no inheritance. His parents aren't farming. He just wants to farm. He can't. That is so sad.  What if you then said, hey, I just graduated. I've got my industrial manufacturing degree.  I'm 23. I have zero money. I want to make asphalt shingles and coal. I want to make asphalt shingles  
**[1:06:11-1:06:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:06:11):**  and copper pipe. You'd be like, you dumb son of a bitch. It's like three big, huge manufacturers  of that stuff globally. You're not going to compete against them. You know what? The margins  are very low. It's huge capital, cost of entry, et cetera, et cetera. I only give this illustration  
**[1:06:27-1:06:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:06:27):**  that nobody in our industry ever thinks of, Brian, that there's only a few commodity production  businesses that you can get into as a young person with limited finance and ag is one of them.  You've never thought of it that way now, have you?  
**[1:06:47-1:07:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:06:47):**  No, I really haven't. I really haven't. I kind of look at the agricultural commodity system and  see some problems with it. I know that it's difficult to fight.  You don't win their game by playing it. You have to play a different game.  
**[1:07:07-1:07:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:07:07):**  Well, that's the other thing. Okay. Again, I'm an ag guy, so I'm not saying this to be mean.  I'm telling our ag people, think from a different perspective. I've had to hear this my whole life.  I'm 53 years old. I've had to hear it my whole life. I didn't go back and farm. There was no  
**[1:07:24-1:07:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:07:24):**  farm for me to go to. I'm one of nine kids. I'm the youngest of nine kids. There's no inheritance.  We didn't barely have anything to begin with. My dad was basically a sharecropper.  So there's like 90, 85 tillable acres, some woods, some rough ground, and a very labor intensive  
**[1:07:45-1:07:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:07:45):**  mid-sized dairy facility. There was not enough money for my parents, not alone my brother who  decided to go and farm. So this thing of, oh, well, Damien wanted to go and farm after college  and he just couldn't. How tragic. That's just so sad. We need to change this whole thing.  
**[1:08:01-1:08:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:08:01):**  That's not true. USDA has all kinds of beginning farmer programs. Again, does the USDA have a  beginning asphalt shingle manufacturing program where I can be a penniless 22-year-old kid and  go into their office and they'll say, now here's what we're going to do. We're going to give you  
**[1:08:15-1:08:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:08:15):**  zero interest money. You go over there and you start a little factory and you start making up  asphalt shingles and you compete against Owens Corning. Owens Corning. Again, I'm not being  anti-ag. I'm giving comparative perspective. Here's where you can make out. And it's more  
**[1:08:36-1:08:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:08:36):**  of an option now than it has ever been. This idea that they want to go and farm,  commodity production has always, always, always from an agricultural economics history  gotten back to where the revenue equals the cost of production. Period. It's a breakeven endeavor.  
**[1:08:53-1:09:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:08:53):**  That's why we have the USDA. Essentially, if you have any historical perspective,  we've had lots of years where you produce the crops at breakeven and your net profit  was your USDA payments. That's been the case many, many years over the last 50 years that  
**[1:09:11-1:09:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:09:11):**  I've been paying attention. But more than ever, you're talking about that young person  that wants to get into this business. And again, I would say this to please take this the right way.  There's lots of young people that get in on grandpa's assets. You, I'm not being mean,  
**[1:09:31-1:09:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:09:31):**  but based on your story, you, I didn't get into production ag because I had no assets  given to me. So let's not pretend that this is the only thing. What if you said, I want to,  I want to start a plumbing contractor business. Well, your dad and mom don't have a plumbing  
**[1:09:50-1:10:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:09:50):**  contractor business. You're going to start with you and a bucket of tools. And then you're going  to buy a truck and then you're going to buy a second truck and you're going to hire another guy,  et cetera, et cetera. You say, well, I can't do that in ag. Well, actually you can. Now more  
**[1:10:03-1:10:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:10:03):**  than ever, we have a consumer base that is more accustomed and comfortable buying direct from  the farm that has ever been. And I'm not talking about you have to set up a roadside stand.  We have internet commerce for food that is more acceptable now than it has ever been.  
**[1:10:23-1:10:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:10:23):**  The pandemic made it more so it was already pretty damn popular and acceptable.  Starting with this whole shutdown, you can go on your website and order, boom, whatever. So the  answer is niche. And if you'll just, and I hope that my ag people understand my point there,  
**[1:10:42-1:10:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:10:42):**  if you'll compare it to, I want to get into manufacturing asphalt shingles, I want to get  into making commodity grade corn and soybeans. Now it's a more like comparison. Nobody in their  right mind would say, yeah, you make shingles. Well, it's the same thing. So if you're going to  
**[1:10:56-1:11:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:10:56):**  sell a lot of shingles, well, it's the same thing, but you know what? What if I say, I'm going to  start a company and I manufacture this niche type of environmentally friendly, very ecologically  oriented, regenerative, naturally produced roofing system. And I'm going to only sell it online to  
**[1:11:17-1:11:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:11:17):**  people that are trying to live off the grid and in a ecologically friendly way. Oh, you mean you  have a product that owns coring doesn't even want to fool with their factories don't even know how  to make that stuff. That's the same thing with ag. Now, all of a sudden you've got a consumer base  
**[1:11:35-1:11:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:11:35):**  and we see it. And we see also to some point, Brian, grass fed small brand was a niche since  you're in a beef business. And then like Neiman ranch said, yeah, well, let's go ahead and do the  same thing. And we'll just bring it that way through all the whole foods, 4,200 stores. Oh,  
**[1:11:54-1:12:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:11:54):**  now that niche became almost commodity. Well, that's what happens. Eventually when niches get  too big and too profitable, then they become commoditized profits go down because all the big  manufacturers, all the big retailers know how to do is sell stuff cheaper. And so if you want to be  
**[1:12:11-1:12:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:12:11):**  an ag production, you have to be any niche. There's no question, or you have to come into it with some  sort of capital in your background. Yep. And finding that niche, I think is,  you know, it can be your unfair advantage. It can be, it can be what makes your business work.  
**[1:12:32-1:12:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:12:32):**  But back to my point, like trying to get into the conventional commodity game with corn,  soybeans, cotton, wheat, whatever. That's not, that's not really a viable economic prospect.  I don't feel, but getting into a niche like growing sunflowers, growing cover crops,  
**[1:12:49-1:13:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:12:49):**  growing all natural pasture finished grass fed beef. You know, these are niches that people need  to think about starting to explore that can be done on a much smaller acreage to generate,  you know, an adequate living versus the almost non-existent margins in the commodity business.  
**[1:13:08-1:13:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:13:08):**  So when, and yeah, and I, again, I'm as pro agriculture as any human you'll ever meet.  I also am pro business and I understand business. Again, more of like the left leaning media loves  to cover this. It rolled out, they trotted out when there's not COVID or climate crisis,  
**[1:13:27-1:13:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:13:27):**  paranoia and fear to push, then they had to roll out this one. And you'll see these stories pretty  regularly in PR. I think it was about four years ago, go and profile this nice old man and woman.  I don't know if they're nice or not, but they're old and they're in Wisconsin. They're 80 years old  
**[1:13:44-1:14:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:13:44):**  and they got 36 stall cows in a tie stall barn. And I saw the pictures. And of course the cows  are just coated with because it's an antiquated farming operation, antiquated milking operation.  The cows are not being well cared for. They're in tie stalls for God's sakes. So all the animal  
**[1:14:00-1:14:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:14:00):**  do-gooders sort of forgot that they're supposed to be against this because at modern dairy operations,  they've got hoof tremors, they've got hoof baths where they go through to make sure they don't get  hairy warts. They've got a nutritionist on staff. They have a veterinarian on staff. They have air  
**[1:14:15-1:14:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:14:15):**  movement systems. They have fresh water every hundred feet. Amazing. But the NPR story showed  these dirty cows in this tie stall barn in the basement of a barn that was built in the probably  late 1800s, early 1900s. And they talked about how awful it was that Mr. And Mrs. Farmer in central  
**[1:14:34-1:14:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:14:34):**  Wisconsin couldn't make it because big farming, big corporate agriculture was putting them out  of business. They'd been milking 36 cows there since the 1950s. Gosh, darn it. And that's  terrible. They can't make it. If you are still doing things the way you did in 1950,  
**[1:14:51-1:15:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:14:51):**  you should be out of business, period. And so this whole story is that, oh, they can't make it being  a small farmer. Well, maybe they could make it as a small farmer if A, they took better care of  their cows. B, updated facilities just a little bit, spent some money since 1960 till today.  
**[1:15:09-1:15:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:15:09):**  If you don't upgrade your facilities for 60 years, you might have a problem. And then more importantly,  find a niche. They could have upgraded facilities, take better care of the cows, spend a little money  on improvements along the way, and then decided, hey, you know what? There's probably not a lot  
**[1:15:26-1:15:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:15:26):**  of room for us. We're not as efficient. We don't make as much milk per cow. We got all kinds of  other issues. Let's just do this. Let's make it so that we're selling raw milk or un homogenized  straight from the farm, bottled in glass milk, whatever. And people say, oh,  
**[1:15:44-1:16:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:15:44):**  Damon, I sound easy for you. I'm tired of the excuses. The point is, I'm from Indiana. We used  to manufacture like 100 different brands of automobiles at the turn of the century in the  state of Indiana. The Stutz car company don't exist anymore. It's not because of somebody  
**[1:16:06-1:16:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:16:06):**  being evil. It just is called evolution. Not everybody gets to make it, I suppose.  Not every idea is good. Well, I started out, as I told you, when you asked me for my elevator  speech, and I told you that I don't like to talk on elevators, that was a political comedian when  
**[1:16:24-1:16:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:16:24):**  I quit corporate America. If I had failed, do you think there would just be this whole outpouring  of emotion and, oh, poor Damien, he tried to make it in political comedy. Maybe we need more USDA  programs for young budding political comedians. Nope. It was sink or swim. And so that's the way  
**[1:16:45-1:17:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:16:45):**  it is with a lot of businesses. And so I'm being very frank. And also, again, I'm an ag guy.  This idea that you can't make it as a young farmer is not necessarily true.  But why is it that we have this thing that that should be a path to entry without any struggle  
**[1:17:05-1:17:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:17:05):**  or no failure rate? Nobody thought that about me when I was 25. That stupid idiot went and quit a  good corporate job to try and be a political comedian. Now I'll tell you the other part about  keeping up, modernizing, evolving. My political comedy act, Brian, was very unique. It was very  
**[1:17:23-1:17:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:17:23):**  unique. It was very special. I dressed up as Bill Clinton because Bill Clinton was the president of  the United States. So my political comedy act involved me dressing up as Bill Clinton with  makeup and wig and hair and all that stuff and a suit. And I did a political comedy act in the  
**[1:17:36-1:17:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:17:36):**  persona of Bill Clinton. So here it is the year 2022. Huh? He was such an easy target. Yeah. So  here it is the year 2022. Bill Clinton has not been in office since the year 2000. What if I told  you? What if NPR came out and did a story and said, here's this poor man. He's been a political  
**[1:17:55-1:18:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:17:55):**  comedian since 1994 and big corporate comedians are putting him out of business. Here's poor  Damien. He still delivers the same act that he did in 1994 when he quit corporate America,  where he dressed up as Bill Clinton and gets up and does some yucks about Monica Lewinsky or  
**[1:18:12-1:18:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:18:12):**  Hillary's calves or Newt Gingrich. You'd say, you stupid son of a bitch. Nobody wants to hear  that. That's 30 year old comedy for God's sakes. You need to get with it, but we never do that in  agriculture. Now, do we? I mean, that's a good point. Um, and I'm struggling to draw a parallel  
**[1:18:31-1:18:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:18:31):**  though. I just paralleled it for you. I told you about the two old people in Wisconsin that NPR  told us we're all supposed to cry about and create a GoFundMe. They created a GoFundMe account.  Their kid created a GoFundMe account said to help out grandma and grandpa out there still in their  
**[1:18:44-1:19:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:18:44):**  36 count high stall barn. Nobody creates a GoFundMe account for a, uh, antiquated Bill Clinton  impersonator. I adjusted. I evolved and became the next thing they should too. Yeah. Yeah. I,  I get that. I was, I was hung up on like thinking about commodity corn and soybeans,  
**[1:19:01-1:19:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:19:01):**  cause I don't know why that's just where my brain usually goes back to is, is trying to reconcile  that. I already gave that one to you. Also, I compared it to Owens Corning and the manufacturing  of asphalt shingles commodity production. Okay. Okay. I think we got it.  
**[1:19:22-1:19:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:19:22):**  Yeah. Well, is there anything left we need to cover today?  I don't know. We still getting along. Of course. I get along with almost everybody. I mean,  I get along with them. I don't along with a lot of people for two hours.  
**[1:19:36-1:19:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:19:36):**  I get, I don't, I don't get along with everybody, but that's okay. Um, I've, I guess I,  I get people in ag. I had to block somebody a couple of months ago that just, it was the same  bullshit I heard when I was a child at Baxter's restaurant where the farmers hung out in Huntington,  
**[1:19:58-1:20:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:19:58):**  Indiana. Oh, see so-and-so down there, make the big farmer go put us out of business. I've had  to hear this for ever. I retaliate against it, but I do so with economic comparisons,  real world examples. And then I still have to hear, well, it isn't the same thing.  
**[1:20:20-1:20:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:20:20):**  So if you're still hung up on that, I can't, I can't help you, but we've really just talked to,  you know, you, you began this whole thing and we've done everything from the, the,  the evolution of this industry to, uh, the economics of this industry. And the point is  
**[1:20:40-1:21:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:20:40):**  the economics right now are amazing. We had record farm income in 2022. Everybody, uh, is making  money in ag, except I'm understanding is that tree nuts, uh, tree fruits, uh, struggle a little bit.  A few livestock sectors struggled a little, especially crop, but in general, it's never  
**[1:21:00-1:21:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:21:00):**  always good for everybody. And also, um, the, the niche thing that we've just discussed,  you could earn a living in niche agriculture more easily today than you could have at any other time  in American agriculture. Um, you've got to be a bit more of a marketer. You gotta be a bit more  
**[1:21:20-1:21:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:21:20):**  of a promoter. That's it. Commodity production favors size and scale. And it always has.  And I think COVID has really helped a lot of small producers, a lot of diversified producers,  niche producers find their, find their markets and find their consumers.  
**[1:21:41-1:21:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:21:41):**  Yeah. And, and like I said, it's more acceptable and accepted than it's really ever been. So that's,  that's a bonus for, for most everybody. So here's the biggie. I appreciate you having me on here.  I'm not sure we got to everything that was on your list, but I think we got through a bunch of  
**[1:21:59-1:22:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:21:59):**  things that weren't on your list. So there you go, my man. I very rarely get through everything on  a list and that's, that's perfectly okay. I listed, they're probably used to it by now. So  close us out, let us know where we can find you on the internet and how to get ahold of you and what,  
**[1:22:17-1:22:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:22:17):**  and what was your podcast again? The business of agriculture is the podcast,  the business of agriculture. My name is Damian Mason. You can go to Damian Mason, D A M I A N,  just type in whatever search engine you use, Damian Mason agriculture, and I'll come up.  
**[1:22:36-1:22:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:22:36):**  My website, Damian Mason.com. I'm all over social media, particularly Facebook, LinkedIn,  and Twitter. I do some stuff on Instagram, although I'm not sure that, I'm not sure that's  my favorite. And I do put out my podcast every week. And then also you can check out the work  
**[1:22:52-1:23:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:22:52):**  we're doing over at Xtreme Ag, just type in XtremeAg.Farm, no E on the front of it,  XtremeAg.Farm. So we're all over the place. All right. Sounds great. And I guess with that,  we'll let y'all go. Y'all have a great week. Thanks, Damian.  
**[1:23:08-1:23:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/96-Damian-Mason-It-Take-Balls-To-Be-Wrong-e1stivf#t=1:23:08):**  Thanks.  