---
title: 97 Loyd Borntrager Solving Problems With Food
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Ranching Reboot  (2023-01-09)  
### Author(s): Red Hills Rancher  

**[0:00:00-0:00:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:00:00):**  Hey gang, welcome back for another episode of your favorite Rejournavag podcast,  Ranching Reboot. I'm your host, Brian Alexander. You might know me on social media as Red Hills  Rancher. This podcast is made possible with the generous support of people just like you through  
**[0:00:12-0:00:28](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:00:12):**  my Patreon page. Your support makes it all worth it. You can join the rest of my crazy, amazing  patrons on patreon.com forward slash red hills rancher. Check the show notes for a link. This  episode of the podcast sponsored by Bobo Links from Blue Nest Beef. Bobo Links beef sticks are  
**[0:00:28-0:00:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:00:28):**  incredibly delicious made with natural seasonings and slow cooked to perfection. They have the right  blend of tang, smoke, and spice. I always have some close by for a protein boost when I'm too  busy to stop for a meal. Bobo Links are gluten-free, soy-free, casein-free, and sugar-free packed with  
**[0:00:41-0:00:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:00:41):**  seven grams of protein and only 70 little calories per serving. So if you're looking for a snack  that's both nutritious and delicious, give Bobo Links beef sticks from Blue Nest Beef a try. I know  you'll love them as much as I do. Click the link in the show notes and use the code BOBOREBOOT for  
**[0:00:54-0:01:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:00:54):**  $10 off your first pack. Confession time. I have a very hard time eating. I'm a picky eater and it's  been a struggle my whole life to fuel my body properly. When I got curious about nutrition,  I asked my doctor about vitamins and that led to a conversation about where vitamins come from.  
**[0:01:09-0:01:22](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:01:09):**  He didn't know and I realized I needed to make a change so I started searching for a better source  of high quality nutritional supplements to spend my hard-earned dollars on. I reached out to several  companies and I'm proud to announce a partnership with a company I can stand behind. Introducing  
**[0:01:22-0:01:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:01:22):**  One Earth Health grass-fed beef organ supplements. Organ meats are the most nutrient-dense foods we  can eat and have been uniquely treasured by our ancestors. Organ meats are not only nutrient-dense  but they're also a great source of essential vitamins and minerals. The liver is packed  
**[0:01:36-0:01:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:01:36):**  with vitamin A, K, and E while the heart is a great natural source of COQ10. The spleen contains four  times the amount of iron as the liver and the kidney is a great source of vitamin B complex.  The pancreas supports gut health. I can't tell you how much better I feel since I started taking  
**[0:01:51-0:02:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:01:51):**  these supplements. When I don't take them I have much less energy and focus. Just a few capsules  every morning gives me everything my body needs to thrive. We are built to eat diverse diets that  include whole animals and organ meats. We have lost our perspective on food and its purpose.  
**[0:02:05-0:02:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:02:05):**  Give yourself the gift of radical health. Give yourself One Earth Health grass-fed beef organ  supplements. Visit www.oneearthhealth.com or just click the link in the show notes.  Yeah, you sound great. How are you doing buddy? Good.  
**[0:02:35-0:02:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:02:35):**  Actually, there's a bit of an echo. Where are you at?  I'm down in my basement. Did I move? Oh no, it'll be fine. As long as it's  quiet down there, you'll be fine. Okay. Yeah. About the quietest place on the farm I could find.  
**[0:02:57-0:03:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:02:57):**  Kids away from kids. I understand that. You've never been to my place but I'm down here in  a basement too. It doesn't echo because I've got sheets and blankets and clothes and foam all over  the walls. It did a lot to kind of deaden this place down. Otherwise, it needed a little work  
**[0:03:17-0:03:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:03:17):**  before I used it as a studio. We'll say that. Yeah, I hear you.  So, this is the first episode we're doing in 2023. Tell me how your 2022 turned out.  Well, it turned out pretty good with what we had to go through. But overall,  
**[0:03:42-0:04:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:03:42):**  I could definitely say it was a challenge. We had a lot of drought issues, definitely.  We did the numbers here the other day. We weren't quite like we had been in the past  a couple years, but nothing to complain about. I can imagine the stress that I feel  
**[0:04:09-0:04:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:04:09):**  trying to make sure my cows stay and that kind of correct nutrition over the winter  with the drought. What's that been like for you? Well, buying in hay has been the biggest  challenge for us with the drought. We had a lot of cows to feed, more cows than we had in the  
**[0:04:33-0:04:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:04:33):**  previous years. We've been expanding our herd the last year. We've been expanding our herd  the last couple years. Buying hay has been the biggest thing that we've had to deal with.  Sourcing hay, we've been looking for organic hay is what we kind of stand behind is the  
**[0:04:55-0:05:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:04:55):**  organic alfalfa. We had to go to three different states to find what we needed. We went to Missouri,  Nebraska, and Iowa. Usually people around here are sending alfalfa that way and  now we're bringing it back it seemed like. I was really just glad to find some was  
**[0:05:21-0:05:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:05:21):**  really what it came down to because I knew we needed it and didn't have selling cows in the  plan getting rid of any cows just because of our markets we had. So yeah, the alfalfa hay thing was  definitely the biggest of course pasture challenges of trying to keep residue on the  
**[0:05:48-0:06:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:05:48):**  on the fields and the pastures when we had all the wind and the dust and  blowing everything everywhere. So that was the other challenge we had but on the customer side  it was good. We really had a good year on that on the different foods we produced.  
**[0:06:10-0:06:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:06:10):**  I remember I think it was back in the spring we came we came through for a one of our  semi-regular shopping trips and you had a new product. What are they? Eight ten ounce  little coffee drinks? Yeah, they're 11 ounces is what the bottle is.  
**[0:06:36-0:06:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:06:36):**  Talk about your coffee drink. Yeah, the cold brew we're doing.  Yeah, we've been talking other people have been talking to us about we've you know you go to  Starbucks to buy this expensive coffee drink but you need to make a coffee drink with raw cream  
**[0:06:58-0:07:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:06:58):**  in it or some kind of a you know a healthy dairy additive in it. So we started looking around  and found some good cold brew coffee and started to do some testing and I don't know how many  different test batches we drank and it's like man I drank so that's more coffee  
**[0:07:18-0:07:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:07:18):**  than ever just doing all the testing. So we finally came up with it well we need a glass jar  or a glass bottle and so we found that and then we got to like man this stuff we get a lot of  cost in it and it ended up we were like well you start comparing it to anything else for a  
**[0:07:43-0:08:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:07:43):**  specialty drink and it's not that expensive. So yeah that's been a fun product and a product  that has been really selling well. Okay, hold up. It's not just a cold brew coffee drink with raw  heavy cream in it. It's got what else is having it? Maple syrup? Oh, it's got maple  
**[0:08:07-0:08:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:08:07):**  syrup. It's got some homemade vanilla, organic vanilla and it's got the cream in it of course  and if there's any other other ingredients in there but yeah it's all the no additives, no  preservatives, no nothing. So when the shelf life you know it's got a shorter shelf life than  
**[0:08:33-0:08:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:08:33):**  what you'd buy at a convenience store but hey please more for us if it doesn't sell.  I volunteer as tribute next time you're developing coffee flavors I will happily come up and do all  the taste testing you need. That seems like it's something that's right in the rule house.  
**[0:08:50-0:09:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:08:50):**  Yeah, no we usually have the kids and everybody are like  grabbing it as soon as it gets outdated or something. If there's some that does get outdated  then we all have our pecking order right on. I still think you could maybe mark  
**[0:09:14-0:09:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:09:14):**  that up and you'd still move a lot of units man. That's good stuff and there's nothing else like  it anywhere. That's right, that's right. That's the thing that we were like you can't get a  ready-made product with a raw grass-fed dairy additive in it anywhere and it's like  
**[0:09:33-0:09:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:09:33):**  the more we can value add the better is kind of what our trend has been.  Awesome, so let's kind of circle back to your winter feed and I know that  you know with the drought and I know feed costs are expensive and I imagine it's  
**[0:09:51-0:10:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:09:51):**  we don't need to talk about it. Let's talk about your fodder system because that's one  of the ways that really helps you kind of save on that front isn't it? Yeah, the fodder system has  been very helpful mostly for winter production. I mean it does help on less hay but it  
**[0:10:11-0:10:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:10:11):**  works really well to add with the hay program we have for the winter. Through the  summer of course we don't do the fodder but through the winter is when we started up and  it grows well when it's cold. We have a room that's insulated and we have  
**[0:10:37-0:11:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:10:37):**  growing trays like a big rack system where it's all indoors and it really  the benefit that really helps is the energy for milk production on the dairy farm  coupled with we mix it with the alfalfa with the dry alfalfa and it's like  
**[0:11:00-0:11:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:11:00):**  inoculating the alfalfa back with all the wet moisture that comes out of the fodder as it  mixes and grinds and so that really helps the cows consume the alfalfa better but it also  makes the fodder more usable as it's mixed together with the hay.  
**[0:11:24-0:11:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:11:24):**  So what the idea is turning the starch from the seed into a sugar which is very highly  available to the cows rumen and the idea that I like to say is you trade a seed for a plant and  you get all that root system producing lots of sugars that the cows can really absorb well  
**[0:11:59-0:12:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:11:59):**  and as far as costs I mean there's a there's costs in it there's you know there's labor in it to take  care of it but you just get so much more out of seed and with having a organic grass fed dairy  it works well with that program so you know with us milking grass fed cows throughout the year  
**[0:12:24-0:12:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:12:24):**  it's one of those I call it a must to get through the winter and keeping the milk production going.  But yeah this just this past fall we actually almost doubled the system so we  we bought in another system and added it to the original system we've had for  
**[0:12:48-0:13:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:12:48):**  I think it's been eight years now so we've added we've added the the system  and it's been really helpful especially this year more cows  availability of hay has been a little lower and so it's been a really a blessing in disguise to  
**[0:13:10-0:13:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:13:10):**  find that new system and we didn't have to add on to the room we just went up we bought a  a lift a man lift where we can get up there and and do all the the work up in a convenient manner  and so we're just harvesting a lot more every day. I remember you told me that that you'd pretty much  
**[0:13:33-0:13:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:13:33):**  doubled it and the last time I was up at your place held it was a couple months ago  it's been since it's been since Gail's field school that I was there I don't think you're around.  Anyway yeah I didn't I didn't see a new building over there where your fodder system was and that  
**[0:13:52-0:14:10](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:13:52):**  explains it I could I could just see you guys cruising around there like a little scissor lift  going up and down to check the fodder can you can you kind of describe like how that  set up and how that works for folks for the folks that are listening. Sure well the idea is that  
**[0:14:11-0:14:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:14:11):**  you take a seed you soak it for about 12 to 24 hours in but in water so there's there's no  there's no nutrients there's no soil involved so a lot of people think of it as a hydroponic  hydroponic system well this has no no nutrients going in so it's not like any artificial nutrients  
**[0:14:35-0:14:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:14:35):**  or anything it's just the seed and water is all it is and it's just letting letting the water  sprout the seed and then creating a feed source for the cows so it starts in a in a just a five  gallon bucket and mix mix a little bit of peroxide in it with water and let it set overnight and then  
**[0:14:59-0:15:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:14:59):**  the rack system is about 15 feet long and there's there's  12 inches between every tray so there's a there's a tray every tray is 10 inches wide  and then every 12 inches there's another layer of trays so there's  
**[0:15:23-0:15:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:15:23):**  10 that the 10 inches by 15 foot long trays hold about 10 pounds of dry seed and so one bucket one  five gallon bucket of seed will will will seed two trays so 20 pounds in a bucket equals two trays and  so the the trays are are irrigated every four hours which continue the cycle you know on a  
**[0:15:57-0:16:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:15:57):**  on a on a timer every four hours it waters it for two minutes and so from start to finish takes  eight days so there's nothing but water every four hours going and irrigating this these trays  and the way that irrigation works at the end of the at the the far end of the system there's  
**[0:16:23-0:16:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:16:23):**  a irrigation line which will just kind of flood irrigate it for two minutes and it will gently  flow throughout the tray the tray is on a on a on a slope just a slight slope and it it takes the  water down the end and if there's any it drains off there's some systems that will you reuse the  
**[0:16:47-0:17:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:16:47):**  water through a filter system this one does not there's a little bit that that runs off of it  but that just goes out outside but the system itself will do it all all the watering automatically  and then the manual labor is taking the the harvest the the fodder off of the trays and then  
**[0:17:15-0:17:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:17:15):**  washing them down and and putting the wet soap seed in the buckets on the trays every day so  it's just a continual cycle every day and it just becomes a big old mat it's it's it's like a two  inch deep root system just completely dense mat like a carpet and then you got like a four four  
**[0:17:42-0:18:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:17:42):**  inch green growth on top and and the green growth on top there's not a whole lot of weight there  most of your weight is in your root system and that's where most of the nutrients are I mean  the green growth on top will of course add add nutrients as well but the bulk of the  
**[0:18:00-0:18:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:18:00):**  of the feed is in the roots so you ever weigh it we yeah yeah our mixer wagon which we dump it into  after we harvest it is has scales on it and so we're harvesting about 1300 pounds every day  is what we're harvesting so there's about 220 pounds of dry seed going on on and yeah so there's  
**[0:18:26-0:18:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:18:26):**  about six times as much coming off as going on in an eight day cycle so that's the number I wanted  yeah yeah that's that's usually what what I get asked a lot is is how much more do you get well  there's a lot of nutritionists that will argue that that well the uh the weight is just water  
**[0:18:47-0:19:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:18:47):**  well technically technically it is just moisture but you you've you've kind of you've germinated  the seed which which opens up it opens it up to a whole new uh feed source is really the way it works  and so yeah yeah it's it's we do have grow lights in there some people some people I've talked to  
**[0:19:14-0:19:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:19:14):**  said that it doesn't change the nutrient profile any uh but hey I like green growth seeing green  growth in the middle of the winter when it's dry outside and nothing's growing outside so  I didn't really see much green outside growing even during the girlies that's true very true  
**[0:19:38-0:19:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:19:38):**  I'd just like to see something green and growing doesn't really matter when or where it is anymore  that's right that's right uh I think the good news is and I've been seeing this for long and  enough I'm comfortable finally saying it the climate prediction center is saying that La  
**[0:19:57-0:20:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:19:57):**  Nina will go away in about two months we'll start like the the in so the the pacific circulation  pattern is supposed to break and go from the La Nina toward an El Nino which given the pattern  we're in should mean that it's supposed to get a little more damp here yeah so I I'm not going to  
**[0:20:24-0:20:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:20:24):**  cross my fingers just yet but I think there is drought relief coming our way this season this  year yeah yeah well we just we just gained a three-quarter inch yesterday here on the farm  so that was a big surprise so every little helps I don't even think I got enough to measure  
**[0:20:44-0:21:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:20:44):**  oh wow yeah it was super foggy all day like it was one of those days that I left the house and  visibility was a quarter of a mile and I've got to go up I think it's like 220 240 feet of elevation  from my house out to the ranch and like eight miles it doesn't sound like much but I leave the  
**[0:21:08-0:21:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:21:08):**  house and I get up the top of junk pile hill and the fog's even thicker like okay this is not good  go down through bear creek and get up at the top of the next ridge and I couldn't see anything like  I mean we're headlights on down to 35 mile an hour on a road that I drive three times a day or  
**[0:21:27-0:21:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:21:27):**  at least once a day almost every day for a lot of years couldn't hardly see I'm getting close down  to the highway and I'm thinking like visibility is 500 feet but okay so I've got this little I've  got this little trail that I use that it kind of connects to oil field leash roads and it keeps me  
**[0:21:49-0:22:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:21:49):**  from having to make a left-hand corner out onto the highway and go a quarter mile down and turn  into the yard so I just thought I'll just go ahead and I'll just take this take this cut off  take this cut off through the pasture and I took it both ways I took it when I left too but then I  
**[0:22:07-0:22:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:22:07):**  got there and I jumped in the gator and I'm going out trying to do my rounds I it's it's not safe to  be out on the highway when it's when it's that fog when you just can't see anything and it takes  three times as long out in the pasture to get anything done because you can't see it's like I'm  
**[0:22:25-0:22:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:22:25):**  out there acting like Ray Charles tapping around with a fence post in front of the gator to try to  make sure I'm not getting ready to drive into something out looking for the cows drive over  your cows yeah almost so yeah we didn't we worked in the office yesterday and and watched it be  
**[0:22:44-0:23:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:22:44):**  foggy from the inside it was it was kind of nice well I'm glad I'm glad you guys got some rain  you've caught I think you've caught a couple little showers that I haven't got too yeah we had  we had we had a little bit here in the last couple months but yeah it'll be take a lot to get stuff  
**[0:23:01-0:23:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:23:01):**  growing in the spring definitely I know we're gonna have that issue to deal with  yeah it's not a question of how much rain we need to get back to quote right or get back to you know  normal I mean we're gonna get what we're gonna get I just hope we get enough that you know we  
**[0:23:19-0:23:46](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:23:19):**  do have something green and growing in April and May yeah yeah yeah so you did you did I  hear you correctly that you actually have expanded your cow herd this year yes yes well we we bought  in a young bull from back east and and then of course the hauling we had to pay hauling and they  
**[0:23:46-0:24:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:23:46):**  said they have a couple heifers so we bought a couple heifers that were closer to the 100  profile like the the Dutch belted we we have the Dutch belted dairy cows and they there's a big  dairy in Pennsylvania it's called Dutch Meadows if anybody wants to look it up they're they've  
**[0:24:04-0:24:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:24:04):**  they've got a family of farms where we've been we've been back and forth we've we bought a bull  from them and and they've they've done some business with us too so yeah we've just we've  just been been keeping all the heifers here the last couple years because supply wasn't keeping  
**[0:24:27-0:24:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:24:27):**  up with demand here on the farm for our retail business on farm store here and so we were keeping  all the heifers and of course we we keep all the steers as well and pretty soon we got way more  calves than we know what to do with because we kept all the rest so we just been we've just been  
**[0:24:52-0:25:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:24:52):**  keeping them and and milking more we've we hit 40 40 cows this this fall and that's been the highest  since we we cut off the milk truck about six years ago so it's been it's been it's been good but you  we've realized one of our limiting factors is land just because we're a grazing dairy farm  
**[0:25:23-0:25:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:25:23):**  one of the biggest limitations is you you you're walking the cows to a dairy barn  and you can't just walk the cows down the road to another pasture every day so yeah that's that's  that's the thing we talk about a lot is so how do we keep the the cow herd growing with the  
**[0:25:49-0:26:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:25:49):**  land acres we have so anyway we continually talk about that so and that's I think that's something  that is probably that a lot of people need to be thinking about is how do we do more on what we're  already paying for without taking without hurting our future I guess without degrading the land base  
**[0:26:14-0:26:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:26:14):**  for future use how do we get you know how can we get more from what we've got and Lloyd I don't  know about you but since the last time we did one of these podcasts the the input section on  my balance sheet like all the all the cost for all the inputs for everything it looks horrible  
**[0:26:39-0:27:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:26:39):**  and I don't very much and those costs those inputs aren't going to be you know I don't think they're  going to come down a whole lot anytime in the near future yeah so what are what are some ways you've  managed to do more with less well you'll you get my mind spinning when you ask that question because  
**[0:27:00-0:27:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:27:00):**  we have all sorts of ideas and things going on and and yeah we're just like the coffee  drink we we did the value adding has been one of the biggest successes for us is is is making  products out of uh ingredient that we produce like milk there's there's just we live in a convenient  
**[0:27:26-0:27:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:27:26):**  society where everything's convenient for everybody and you know most of us farmers  don't think about that when we're producing stuff we're trying to produce uh often a commodity  with volume and you know like like just like you said a grass-based dairy with limited acreage  
**[0:27:50-0:28:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:27:50):**  you have to be creative you have to find your niche you have to be able to figure out you know  what are people buying what's the current you know market that's available you know how can you  solve the people's problem that they're having with food and so we've we've just been been really  
**[0:28:15-0:28:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:28:15):**  doing value-added things like our cheese is probably one of our biggest  sectors of our value-adding enterprises I mean we do like one of the one of the kids  started a little chocolate milk business and that has just been taken off tremendously you know  
**[0:28:33-0:28:57](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:28:33):**  putting it in putting it in small convenient you know 12 ounce bottles is is something we never  thought we'd do like who who can't just take a gallon of milk home and make some chocolate milk  but that's not that isn't the the the the modern uh consumer you know they want something that's  
**[0:28:57-0:29:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:28:57):**  fast convenient ready to go and and uh you know they don't have to store it they can  they can just drink it and they're done with the product and so putting it in in in manageable  use containers is the thing we've we've really started doing you know we'd never done that  
**[0:29:16-0:29:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:29:16):**  we've been doing you know we'd never sell milk less than a half a gallon now we're selling milk  in 12 ounce containers that people grab and and just drink on the way um just those crazy things  like that you wouldn't think about it until you see the margins on those things it's just like  
**[0:29:37-0:29:56](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:29:37):**  you know people will look at a gallon of milk and think of the price at the store but they'll never  to look at the price at a convenience store for a little bottle of chocolate milk so i mean human  psychology is always interesting to me how how that all works um and you know we're all we all  
**[0:29:56-0:30:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:29:56):**  fall prey to it it's not it's not like them out there i do the same thing but sometimes we forget  about that when we're producing food or or farming uh it's just part of it and so you know the  chocolate milk thing the uh eggnog you know making eggnog you know making ice cream uh and and  
**[0:30:18-0:30:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:30:18):**  putting it in small containers i mean we all know that when you when you have a organic grass fed  and organic ingredients without preservatives it makes it makes for a higher priced product but  people people don't think about it when they get those small containers of ice cream and  
**[0:30:38-0:31:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:30:38):**  and uh single serving cups it's it's a completely different product and and that's you know  packaging is is is so huge you know the looks of it the way the way people use it i know there's  a lot of industry food industries out there that that will will uh it change the the size of a  
**[0:31:01-0:31:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:31:01):**  package by one ounce or something you know just for various reasons and so yeah value adding is  definitely something we've we've really gone down but uh on the on the as far as farmland side  on the farm acreage so yeah you can't make more acreage but you can do more with the acreages you  
**[0:31:24-0:31:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:31:24):**  have and so um there's a guy that that helped me kind of understand how how often uh farm land is  just considered as as production acreage and in reality there's so much more you have you have  your production and then you have your uh your experiences that you have on the land and uh and  
**[0:31:54-0:32:19](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:31:54):**  then your education uh things like that and so we've we've branched out into some some uh  experiences on the farm um we've we've been doing uh parking rvs on the farm for a while now several  years i think we're going on the third year now and uh that's been really good you know people  
**[0:32:19-0:32:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:32:19):**  love to come out on the farm see what's going on escape the crazy urban life is that harvest host  yes harvest host is the is that and that that that program is just a um they they can park for free  but then they're expected to to buy from you from whatever you sell so they park for one night  
**[0:32:47-0:33:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:32:47):**  you don't have to provide anything for them just a parking spot they'll be gone the next morning and  yeah they usually we we've got an average of about oh sixty dollars uh on an average sale that we get  from them so i mean it's it does help out on the on the farm definitely and we've had a lot of repeats  
**[0:33:12-0:33:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:33:12):**  uh coming back and and of course most of those travelers have a great social media following  where where they'll uh they'll do a good good advertising for you so someone's got pretty  good sized youtube channels and and uh and you get exposure that way um the thing we're we're working  
**[0:33:35-0:34:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:33:35):**  on this winter and uh planning to try to have it open by the spring here in march sometime is a  is a airbnb on the farm so we have an old barn we redid and we were putting in a in a small airbnb  apartment there and uh so we're we're coming along on it and we've got a the loft up up on top where  
**[0:34:05-0:34:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:34:05):**  we can do some events if we want to and um we had a had a fall fest here in uh october where  um one evening people came out we had uh chili cinnamon rolls and and of course a whole bunch  of cheese and we had you know if you go somewhere else in the world and you put chili on your  
**[0:34:31-0:34:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:34:31):**  cinnamon roll they look at you really weird well i would really you didn't you didn't grow up with  you didn't grow up with that like that was no i put everything else in my chili but not soon those  maybe that was just around here but i i've heard of it i'm not a guy either i don't like don't put  
**[0:34:53-0:35:14](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:34:53):**  sweet stuff in my chili that's that's not cool yeah yeah i'll put pickles and onions and everything  else in it pickles sweet stuff oh yeah like canned uh pickles like your garlic dill pickles  yeah my kids yeah my kids think i'm crazy but it's good okay  
**[0:35:17-0:35:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:35:17):**  so yeah yeah maybe i'll give that a try sometime there's there's plenty of chili gets consumed in  this house in the winter yeah yeah yeah so we're just looking at at you know creative ways to  utilize the farm and and uh keep keep the farm viable uh we've got five kids and and there's  
**[0:35:42-0:36:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:35:42):**  things that they they can do on the farm that that doesn't have to be just straight production  i mean we all get tired of doing chores every day for 10 years of our childhood and and uh  you know we have this idea that we rather not just uh try to push them away from the farm because  
**[0:36:03-0:36:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:36:03):**  they're tired of it but keep creative things going on where where they're still excited and  connected to it and you know like this this farm fest you know they could have their friends over  and help serve serve food or whatever and and have a fun time as well and make good memories so  
**[0:36:23-0:36:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:36:23):**  yeah things like that we keep in our thoughts very cool very cool  have you done any soil testing in the last year or any like any monitoring on your pastures  i have not uh we've we've gained some soil from our neighbors uh we haven't tested that yet but  
**[0:36:49-0:37:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:36:49):**  we've had quite a bit of wind here in the fall and and even through the summer uh that we've  dust storms have been pretty normal and but yeah keeping i keeping residue on the on the surface  has definitely been a challenge this this past season uh i haven't tested tested any soil for a  
**[0:37:16-0:37:41](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:37:16):**  while uh i used to do more of a input system where it used to be farmland that that we had here and  so we we kept kind of the soil testing going as we were we kind of were planting cover crops  as we transitioned away from from the crop cropland acres into more perennial pasture  
**[0:37:41-0:38:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:37:41):**  and then after we started planting more perennials we we kind of phased the soil testing and and uh  things out uh i did one oh just just to do a check on on on uh and i don't have it in front of me i  don't remember exactly what i saw i know the organic matter went up some as far as how much  
**[0:38:07-0:38:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:38:07):**  i don't remember but it was it was all plowed very high tilled ground before we started grazing the  cattle so yeah okay  you know you're uh you're talking earlier about you know the value adds and the chocolate milk  
**[0:38:29-0:38:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:38:29):**  and i remember a couple years ago we started coming up to your store and you know we uh okay  so what's a gallon of milk today so gallon milk we sell it for twelve dollars twelve dollars and  then one of those little coffee drinks in an 11 ounce jar is eleven dollars i imagine you sell  
**[0:38:54-0:39:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:38:54):**  the heck out of chocolate milk in those 11 ounce glass bottles and you probably can charge whatever  you want and people pay it yeah yeah the funniest thing is that that i always i was just just can't  get over is like you know yeah our milk is is higher than than conventional milk or grocery  
**[0:39:17-0:39:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:39:17):**  store milk and yeah and people will come in there oh my goodness you know the price of milk is  the price of milk and and that's just way too expensive but then they'll buy chocolate milk  and that's even you know that's double but it's in a smaller container it's not by the gallon  
**[0:39:35-0:40:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:39:35):**  of course but anyway we'll we'll add chocolate to it for you so oh um eggs you know i okay i haven't  gone to the store in quite a while but i've seen this on social media i've been seeing it for the  last a week or 10 days or so about eggs like eggs are now suddenly hard to find in the grocery store  
**[0:40:00-0:40:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:40:00):**  and when they can find them prices are high they're really high and you know i i remember back  to the start of covid when everybody everybody decided they were going to get chickens right  everybody got chickens start a covid and everybody was giving away eggs and then 2021 and 22  
**[0:40:30-0:40:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:40:30):**  and my wife tanya some other folks were like hey look quit selling your eggs for a dollar you're  not doing anybody any favors by selling your eggs for a dollar or even two dollars it probably  costs four bucks a dozen to get your eggs yeah so at least sell them for that or give them away  
**[0:40:49-0:41:09](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:40:49):**  and then all the uproar oh four dollars a dozen that's way too much when you go to the grocery  store and pay two dollars a dozen for eggs no four dollars is what they should be costing  at minimum i think i said that within the last year like eggs at four dollars are not expensive  
**[0:41:09-0:41:30](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:41:09):**  that's just what they should cost and now it seems like you couldn't you couldn't even get close to  eggs for four bucks at the grocery store is that right yeah very much so and if you can find them  uh i was talking to someone here last week that uh went to three of the the big stores in wichita  
**[0:41:30-0:41:49](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:41:30):**  they were out of eggs like costco uh whole foods they didn't have any eggs and we've been  we've been you know we we've got a small flock of pasture chickens and we had a lot of eggs you know  going into the fall and you know we're sold out uh it's just you know we we we have the pastured  
**[0:41:49-0:42:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:41:49):**  eggs we get uh we're at seven dollars and you know i know that a lot of the the eggs in the store  just just escalated the price has just escalated like crazy and i i just heard heard yesterday that  uh how many million chickens uh that got uh you know the avian fluenza you know that that  
**[0:42:16-0:42:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:42:16):**  had to be put down and you know things like that happen with with the system we're in the  let's stay there for a second that bird flu like it seems like that was that was 18 months ago  or am i or am i not remembering that right well it's been going on for quite a while uh i i don't  
**[0:42:43-0:43:08](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:42:43):**  know all the details from it i just know from what i've heard that that there were there were  a lot of flocks being uh being hit with it um yeah this is when this is where like somebody  like joe rogan has a jamey that can do all this research and pull it up makes sense it doesn't  
**[0:43:08-0:43:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:43:08):**  seem like this is a thing that's just happened like over the last couple of weeks it seems like  the event that's triggered like the quote egg shortage or high egg prices in the store  it seems like that was several months and months and months ago  
**[0:43:25-0:43:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:43:25):**  and maybe there were some warnings about it  but i guess what i'm trying to say is it just seems like this is like the supply chain  is is catching up like you know it was a couple months ago the bird flu happened we had a cold  
**[0:43:42-0:43:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:43:42):**  birds and there were warnings like okay eggs might be in short supply and people like oh no  there's no problem with eggs because the warehouses were still getting cleaned out  and now the warehouses are empty there's no production of refill them  
**[0:43:54-0:44:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:43:54):**  now there's an extra right yeah yeah and it's hard to get get uh uh egg production up this time  of the year especially you know shorter days and of course most most most of the egg egg production  facilities you know are all artificial light anyway but but they just turn the lights on a  
**[0:44:13-0:44:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:44:13):**  little bit longer yeah yeah so but yeah it is definitely a problem that that we see we've got  people stopping in that never stop in just looking for eggs like no we don't have any  i mean we do have you know every day we get some but you know it's not like we have the stock of  
**[0:44:33-0:44:54](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:44:33):**  them so after the born trigger family eats their eggs there might be a few left in the store for  tomorrow yeah yeah yeah understandable totally understandable well  well let's see  
**[0:45:00-0:45:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:45:00):**  so what uh you got any other big plans for 2023  well um the first thing that we're gonna that we're thinking of we're heading to  on a vacation uh we're going to going to be traveling to uh southern california on the beach  
**[0:45:20-0:45:43](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:45:20):**  in march uh we do try to do a family trip every once in a while and uh we'll be we did it here  about five years ago we we traveled out there on the m-track train and so we're kids are all  excited about that and uh yeah i'm too uh all farmers need to leave the farm one time or  
**[0:45:43-0:46:06](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:45:43):**  another get a little break but uh as far as uh plans on the farm uh we're just we've been  we've been doing our our dairy deliveries to to several different uh areas and that's been  growing quite a bit uh kind of following the convenience thing we've talked about earlier  
**[0:46:08-0:46:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:46:08):**  that's been that keeps growing uh we keep talking about putting up a a new storefront  on the farm here uh we're trying to get a barn the barn kind of finalized before we do that  um let's see what else can i suggest a little bit bigger of a sign out by the road yeah  
**[0:46:33-0:46:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:46:33):**  yeah i'll tell you we've been we've been talking about signs for a long time and  i i keep getting told well we're selling all we have why do we need a bigger sign  it's like yeah that's true because we are our land butts up to the highway so we could put a  
**[0:46:51-0:47:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:46:51):**  sign out by the highway and uh and even have a little more exposure there but it's like  wife keeps telling me uh uh well where are we gonna get some more milk from if we we run out  of milk so that's always the thing we keep talking about too so yeah bigger sign uh  
**[0:47:12-0:47:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:47:12):**  more uh more online presence seems like that is is something we continue to talk about  is something we continue to to work through um yeah just navigating the whole employee thing is  another thing we're doing uh we've the last three years we hired a another employee every year and  
**[0:47:36-0:48:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:47:36):**  so this year uh we'll see we'll see where we where we find ourselves here in the next couple months  and in the business side but uh it's employees can be very expensive pets they yes it's a whole new  beast to to conquer you know being on a farm with with uh with family you know  
**[0:48:06-0:48:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:48:06):**  handed down from a family farm and you run it as a family farm and all of a sudden you start doing  all these crazy things you start selling direct you start value adding and well the one thing that  needs to be added is people to make that work and and so it's not like adding another piece of  
**[0:48:26-0:48:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:48:26):**  machine i'll just tell anybody that who's who's who's looking into it but it it it definitely is  a lot to learn i'll tell you that um just being able to to manage manage people something that  most farmers are not used to much less just being around people um so yeah managing managing people  
**[0:48:52-0:49:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:48:52):**  managing the the the farm as the business so people can be involved uh you can't pay yourself you  won't pay your employees for sure and being being ahead of the numbers because once you start having  people involved everything speeds up it seems like you don't have all the time to just think about it  
**[0:49:16-0:49:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:49:16):**  too long you kind of have to make a decision and and keep going uh but yeah it it's the the nice  thing about it is that uh not every single thing depends on you you know as you kind of start  handing stuff off it does make it easier for for uh you and and the family to get away like the  
**[0:49:40-0:50:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:49:40):**  trip we're taking uh make it makes it a lot easier for that something like that definitely um but  it's just a daily you know you're you're just deeply engaged in it every day and and uh yeah  your your brain is tired by the end of the day and and uh you're just yeah you've you realized  
**[0:50:03-0:50:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:50:03):**  how much you think in a in a business like we have i i often think of uh you know the the  princess the principles of soil health and how often  to to make to make the the soil great to make the farms profitable and to keep uh the  
**[0:50:24-0:50:47](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:50:24):**  generations going you know we have to be centered around people and people skills are just something  that most most farmers just have a hard time with or or at least i have i i should admit that but  uh there was this past summer we were gonna we were going to be involved with a a farming  
**[0:50:47-0:51:07](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:50:47):**  conference about this very subject about building teams about uh having people involved on the farm  and things like that and it was it was planned at joel salitons it was planned at polyface and we  we'd registered and we were really excited about it you know learning from others about the people  
**[0:51:07-0:51:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:51:07):**  side of a farm business and they could not get enough people to make it worthwhile to come  together and and that just really opened my eyes to the reality of of the situation we're in like  we really have a hard time uh enjoying the people side of the business in farming and  
**[0:51:31-0:51:51](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:51:31):**  yeah i mean it has it has to be profitable and and it's very easy to for me to think often i  could go get a different different job and be involved with people and get paid more  but when it really comes down to the end of the day it's like i wouldn't want to trade trade the  
**[0:51:51-0:52:11](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:51:51):**  food production you know you're you're making a difference on the land you're making a difference  in the people and then even the people that come and help you you're making a difference in and so  you know that's that's really the fuel that that keeps me going even in the hard times i like it i  
**[0:52:11-0:52:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:52:11):**  like it yeah i was back with an earlier comment you made that's probably the that's probably the  title of this episode solving problems with food yeah yeah oh man you'll never be done with that  no that that's a big subject there when you get into get into food systems and you know how to  
**[0:52:39-0:53:04](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:52:39):**  how to remain viable and and solve the problems that are at hand because there's big problems out  there it's not it's not just it's not just cheap food you know there's there's a whole lot of  other things there's control there's you know government intervention and just tons of things  
**[0:53:04-0:53:31](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:53:04):**  that that we get to we get to solve as as these small scale food producers so yeah the challenge  the challenge will never end i guess well okay so the the thing that popped into my head as you were  talking was government subsidies i know i don't really get any i suspect you probably don't get a  
**[0:53:31-0:53:52](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:53:31):**  whole lot either being no i don't get a dollar from that it it seems like those of us that are  you know doing grass fed direct to consumer there just aren't any of those subsidy programs that  that are really around to help keep us in business now if you had a couple hundred acres of corn  
**[0:53:53-0:54:23](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:53:53):**  and a confinement barn there's all the programs in the world for you but grass-based direct to  consumer we're on our own buddy like we're 100 on our own and it gets to be as sometimes i get to a  little bit disheartened i suppose when i start thinking about you know the larger machine of the  
**[0:54:23-0:54:44](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:54:23):**  beef of the production commodity beef industry you know feedlots and corn and distillers grain  distillers grains and and how many times some of those subsidies like pass through the system or  or how many or how many links in the system are dependent on those subsidies and i compare that  
**[0:54:44-0:55:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:54:44):**  to with the to my production cycle or to your production cycle and it you said something about  control and we're talking about solving problems with food and i think that there's a lot of  government control that's exercised through the commodity programs through the subsidy programs  
**[0:55:12-0:55:33](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:55:12):**  and like without jumping completely off the reservation and getting in getting on a  conspiracy train no there's not a grand conspiracy to ruin everybody's health that's just what  happened okay yeah that's just how i come and yeah and i really really enjoyed the perspective  
**[0:55:33-0:55:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:55:33):**  that damian mason the last podcast came out on his perspective on you know on the idea of the  the business of ag and how that really really was affected by you know the evolution of of the the  the the agriculture era i mean things things start with uh with a niche and you get you go through  
**[0:55:58-0:56:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:55:58):**  the cycle becomes the norm and and then the the you know the margins go down i mean that's that's  kind of the cycle with with all uh innovation it seems like yeah yeah i uh oh this was several  years ago and kind of an unrelated thing somebody asked me for some advice and i said  
**[0:56:22-0:56:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:56:22):**  if you feel that if you feel the pressure of competition you need to find a niche in that  business and go live in it and go own it and go make it your own and when you feel the pressure  in that niche you need to start looking for another one and to some extent yeah the niche  
**[0:56:42-0:57:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:56:42):**  does become the mainstream i remember going to um let's see let me think king ranch king ranch  symposium on the future of beef marketing in the fall of 2019 probably when the dreaded covid was  making its first rounds in the world and i primarily went down there to listen to a  
**[0:57:03-0:57:26](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:57:03):**  presentation about um about beef chain about tracing tracing animals using you know blockchain  technologies and you know blockchain cryptographies high unique record to that to that cow that you  don't can't that can always be traced you know from in consumer all the way back to the person  
**[0:57:26-0:57:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:57:26):**  that originally put the record in in the pasture still working on that um but i remember another  presentation where they were saying that grass-fed beef industry was growing at something like 13%  per year wow for everybody around i'll give you i'll give you like i'll give you a really good  
**[0:57:53-0:58:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:57:53):**  rule of thumb rule here to go by when something is growing at say 13% so to figure out how long  it's going to take that market to double you take that percentage growth and you divide uh you  divide 70 by that number so we can round up 13 we call it 14 percent goes into 70 what five times  
**[0:58:18-0:58:53](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:58:18):**  14 goes into 75 times so if grass-fed beef is growing at 14 a year that market doubles in five  years 13 years doubles in six if it's 10 it doubles in seven so even though like a growth  rate yeah 13 that's that's how a good if we're looking at return on investment 13 i mean that'd  
**[0:58:53-0:59:24](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:58:53):**  be really really high um but it's how long before grass-fed becomes niche i don't i man  i don't see that happening like in that's not a near-term thing i don't think grass-fed becomes  a niche in the near-term thing just because of the the size of the industry i think it's difficult  
**[0:59:25-0:59:50](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:59:25):**  to really wrap our heads around how big the beef industry is like just just how ridiculously big  it is you milk 40 cows i have 120 like we're nothing like we're not even a statistical  we're not even a tenth of a tenth of a tenth of a person well yeah yeah i i think of it like the  
**[0:59:50-1:00:15](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=0:59:50):**  the the parallel i think of is just like people living in the in the rural areas and people living  in the cities just like you know feedlot beef and and and grass-fed beef i mean there's there's  there's so much more acreage but a lot less cows like in in a concentrated area and so like for  
**[1:00:15-1:00:40](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:00:15):**  if we're in a grass-based system like i said earlier there's a limited amount of acres where  where you can really really expand and so it just has to be more right widespread is really what it  comes down to yeah i think what i'd like to see and this is this is me dreaming right i'd like to  
**[1:00:40-1:01:01](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:00:40):**  see you know for the you know the three four months that the grass is really good and animals  are really you know really stacking on pounds that's when we take all of our grass animals  like that's we take all the grass animals kind of late summer early fall before the forest starts  
**[1:01:01-1:01:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:01:01):**  going too bad before you have to start winter supplementing yeah we're having to feed through  two feet of snow that's when we need to be taking a lot of our cattle off grass that's when we need  that's what we need to be doing our our big grass-fed harvest and then and then when the  
**[1:01:18-1:01:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:01:18):**  grass isn't good when animals aren't finishing on grass that's when that's when they transition  over and they start taking animals from the feedlots yeah it's a real easy nice easy concept  to talk about but logistically that's logistically to put that in practice  
**[1:01:35-1:02:00](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:01:35):**  it'd be pretty difficult i think yeah yeah it's hard to it's hard to turn a ship  when when the ship's been been added to for for quite a while i mean it's a pretty good size  industry yeah and i got another interview coming up i was already supposed to do it you know it  
**[1:02:00-1:02:17](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:02:00):**  was supposed to be next week's show with mike calicrate but he had some personnel issues there  just a few days before christmas and uh he ended up having to go drive a truck for a couple of days  and we couldn't get an interview done um i forgot where i was going with that but uh  
**[1:02:19-1:02:36](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:02:19):**  that he'll be he'll be a good one to talk to about you know marketing and and just the size  and the scope of the industry i mean feedlots feedlots are not going to go away anytime in our  lifetime i don't think they might become a lot less important they might change what they look  
**[1:02:36-1:03:05](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:02:36):**  like but they're not going away yeah and there's even even as fast as grass fit is growing  no we'll just leave it that i think i mean there's there's going to be things that are changing  you know in in the cattle into beef industry um in the near future but i don't think it's gonna be  
**[1:03:05-1:03:29](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:03:05):**  the massive widespread change that the animal rights activists wish it would be  yeah yeah very lightly very likely yeah the one thing i'm just thinking of uh you mentioned about  control we talked about control governments and subsidies and and that we're alone the one thing  
**[1:03:29-1:03:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:03:29):**  that comes to my mind is after you said that was um we think we're alone uh but there is a  a very large consumer base behind us that we often don't don't put on our side enough you know it  it really it it it's amazing to me how many how many people want the stuff we have uh and and we  
**[1:03:59-1:04:20](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:03:59):**  we we we might look to to the farming industry to solve our problems instead of to the consumers to  solve our problems like just like i said solving food with problem or solving problems with food  or solving problems with food with food is is just just as we're solving the the consumers problem  
**[1:04:20-1:04:42](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:04:20):**  of a of a healthy food whether it's it's for convenience whether it's for for just health  or whatever uh they're solving a big problem we have you know of keeping the farm viable keeping  it keeping it uh attractive for for other generations to come and for the for the soil  
**[1:04:42-1:05:02](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:04:42):**  you know when we're talking about the soil you know we need to have we need to have  income generating enterprises so we can keep going  and not putting all those quote eggs in one basket not relying on one single enterprise  
**[1:05:02-1:05:25](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:05:02):**  to make everything work well i guess you know dairy cows yeah but it's the different products  it's not just milk it's the milk yeah it's the value yeah right right every every um enterprise  or whatever there's there's a whole lot of things you can do within an enterprise to keep it  
**[1:05:25-1:05:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:05:25):**  diversified and you know keep it from becoming one eight all your eggs in one basket uh we've been on  the on the on the side of too much where there's just you have too many enterprises on a too small  scale uh where you can't manage them very well and they're not profitable either i mean they have  
**[1:05:48-1:06:13](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:05:48):**  there has to be some amount of scale in order to to stay viable it doesn't have to be huge to start  with i mean everybody needs to learn i'm all about starting something from a small idea and growing  it into a bigger one but having a hundred small ideas going and not having anyone doing well i'm  
**[1:06:13-1:06:37](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:06:13):**  i'm all about having something done well and and diversifying within that and and being creative on  on on either marketing or processing or partnering with with others uh on on different different  single enterprises so i think i think we often if we're if we're looking on a business scale we  
**[1:06:37-1:07:03](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:06:37):**  often look at it as too much as the more we can do the better well sometimes less is more when we're  when we're doing what we can do well and let others do what they can do well but not not at all  i am that is not saying i'm advocating for a for a a five thousand cow dairy and all confinement  
**[1:07:03-1:07:34](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:07:03):**  operations selling all your milk to a co-op that that markets all the milk for for their own good  now um so that several years ago okay several years ago 40 years ago back in 1980 just after  my parents moved back to this part of the world uh the community got together and made a history  
**[1:07:34-1:07:58](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:07:34):**  book and i guess it it was a thing like in the late late 70s early 80s that that that happened  in a lot of areas a lot of counties made a history book and i spent some time over the holidays  looking through it and it goes through you know the history of all the towns and you know when  
**[1:07:58-1:08:27](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:07:58):**  when things were settled and it also kind of gives a snapshot of what businesses are like of what  businesses are in you know in that area in that late 1979 early 1980 time frame and without without  my notes of course going off memory there was uh in in the beginning of 1980 there were something  
**[1:08:27-1:08:48](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:08:27):**  like four or five dairies in barber county currently there are zero um but in 1980 there  were five dairies and the price of milk i think was twelve dollars a hundred does that sound right  at in 1980 yeah yeah it could be right yeah but uh do you have any idea what the like what the  
**[1:08:48-1:09:18](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:08:48):**  retail price of milk is now so uh i mean it really varies from store to store and depends if it's you  know i mean not retail i'm sorry like farm oh farm price yeah uh well for for the time that we  were shipping milk on the truck we in that time area uh growing up i mean i was i was born in the  
**[1:09:18-1:09:45](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:09:18):**  in the early 80s and so i remember the 90s when there was times it dropped to to nine dollars  i think was seven or nine dollars a hundred was the lowest i remember it it'd go up to 12 15 and  then in in you know 2000s we saw um up to 20 a couple times that dropped back down to 15 and  
**[1:09:45-1:10:12](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:09:45):**  and and there was there was you know later i think the highest what that we received here  was was like 24 if i remember right uh and that was just you know one of those rare instances  instances um and so yeah like you're saying twelve dollars and and you know up to to 20  
**[1:10:12-1:10:38](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:10:12):**  you know the things that the price the prices you see otherwise have have changed dramatically  in comparison yeah yeah well i um i've got a few other things due today lloyd and imagine you  unless you got anything else on your list i think we can we go ahead and wrap up i don't think i  
**[1:10:38-1:10:59](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:10:38):**  have i've uh yeah it's been good and enjoy enjoy listening to your podcast it's been great i enjoy  you and i enjoy coming up to your store i i even enjoy i even enjoy those overpriced bottles of  cold brew coffee with real cream in them i'm not gonna lie they're called maple cold brew that i  
**[1:10:59-1:11:16](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:10:59):**  was just trying to think of the name they're called maple cold brew they have the real maple  syrup from my from my cousin's farm in indiana so yep there's usually two bottles of that that come  home every time that we make a run to board triggers yeah we try to send bottles back every  
**[1:11:16-1:11:35](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:11:16):**  time too because yeah you know it's we've we've had we've had people uh that think those bottles  are so cute because the lids have the plaid coloring on it and there's there's been people  that's like oh just you know they want to drink it but they want them they want to keep the bottle  
**[1:11:35-1:11:55](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:11:35):**  too it's like oh i guess we're selling bottles too so we'll do that yeah that's  hey people don't consider that that bottle what that bottle actually costs yeah you know yeah  yeah i'll bring it back i'll even i usually even try to rinse it out before i bring them back  
**[1:11:55-1:12:32](https://anchor.fm/ranching-reboot/episodes/97-Loyd-Borntrager-Solving-Problems-with-Food-e1t6suq#t=1:11:55):**  oh good good well they they will get washed out either way  all right well great to see you lloyd enjoy the rest of your week gang y'all have a great week too  all right thank you brian see you later bye  