---
title: For The Love Of Soil Interview With Nicole Masters
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Tasting Terroir  (2023-01-16)  
### Author(s): Sara Hessenflow Harper  

**0:00:00-0:00:19:**  Farmers, gardeners, and ranchers often ask me for a simple prescription to cure the ailment.  Be it a nitrogen issue, weeds, or any other wicked problem, they want to be told the answer.  But just as there is no one way to raise a child, there is no single answer when thinking  
**0:00:19-0:00:29:**  about soil.  To find solutions to complex problems, new approaches and new thinking are required.  What would nature do?  
**0:00:29-0:00:46:**  Through a deepening of our relationship with nature's dynamics, we enhance natural systems,  reduce waste, and reduce the need for external inputs.  Happy New Year and welcome back to our podcast, Tasting Terroir, a journey that explores the  
**0:00:46-0:00:59:**  link between healthy soil and the flavor and health of your food.  I'm your host, Sarah Harper.  That was an excerpt from the book For the Love of Soil by Nicole Masters.  
**0:00:59-0:01:12:**  Nicole was born in Auckland, New Zealand.  She is an independent agroecologist, systems thinker, author, and educator.  Nicole's formal background is in ecology, soil science, and organizational learning  
**0:01:12-0:01:26:**  from Otago and Auckland universities.  She has been providing agricultural consulting and extension services in regenerative agriculture  since 2003 and is the director of Integrity Soils Limited.  
**0:01:26-0:01:43:**  With her team of soil coaches, she works alongside producers in the US, Canada, and across Australasia.  You'll get to hear more about the book and a discussion between Nicole and my co-host,  Dr. Jill Cloperton, in my interview with them both later in this episode.  
**0:01:43-0:01:54:**  But first, I want to take a moment to share an update with you about changes that we're  making to the show for this coming year.  It's been a while since we've talked, I'm sure you've noticed.  
**0:01:54-0:02:05:**  I've missed bringing you all the amazing stories of people that are making our food system  better by building up soil health.  But alas, there are some things that are out of our control.  
**0:02:05-0:02:18:**  Toward the end of last year, I got pretty sick and had to take some time to recover.  Then of course, there were the holidays.  But even before that, I was realizing that the pace of creating a high quality episode  
**0:02:18-0:02:31:**  each week while balancing the attention I need to pay to the people actually paying  me was getting out of balance.  To put it in terms that this show deals with, I was mining myself dry and not allowing enough  
**0:02:31-0:02:44:**  time to regenerate.  It takes a lot of time to schedule, interview, edit, and produce an episode.  All these actions are a labor of love for me, but they are time consuming nonetheless.  
**0:02:44-0:02:54:**  And for me, there is no team to hand it off to.  I do every aspect of the show myself.  It was clear by the end of the year that the pace I was going at with this show wasn't  
**0:02:54-0:03:06:**  sustainable.  In thinking about how to address this challenge, I had a few different options.  But what I did not want was for this show to devolve into a series of interviews with  
**0:03:06-0:03:21:**  whoever I could grab just to make sure that we kept getting an episode out each week.  But I also did not want to pod fade, if you will, just steadily putting out fewer episodes  at an unpredictable pace.  
**0:03:21-0:03:35:**  To me, the reason to listen to this show versus many of the others about food or soil health  lies almost completely in the fact that we can bring you access to some of the best people  in this space through their connection to Dr. Jill Claperton and others in our network.  
**0:03:35-0:03:47:**  Even through the knowledge I've accumulated over the past 20 years to provide a different  perspective in the questions asked and the discussions shared.  A different perspective than you would hear on most other shows that maybe focus on just  
**0:03:47-0:04:02:**  the science or just the nutrition, but don't pull them all together.  So I've decided to make some changes to the show, which will help make it a more sustainable  project for me and hopefully a more reliable and valuable one for you.  
**0:04:02-0:04:15:**  First, I'm moving the show release day to Mondays starting today.  This gives me the weekend to finish up an episode that I may need a little more time  with and it gives you a chance to start the week off right.  
**0:04:15-0:04:29:**  Of course, you can listen to our shows anytime you want when you subscribe to our podcast  on your favorite podcast platform or listen to them through our website, globalfoodfarm.com  and just click the podcast tab.  
**0:04:29-0:04:43:**  Next I'm going to release new episodes every other week instead of every week.  This will ensure that I'm putting forward really high quality shows while not shortchanging  the folks in our community who value what we do enough to pay for it.  
**0:04:43-0:04:57:**  Finally, I'm going to start our episodes with a clip or two from various presentations and  work that Dr. Jill Claperton has done on the topics of soil health and nutrient density  in addition to providing a feature interview in each episode.  
**0:04:57-0:05:09:**  In this way, you'll get a chance to learn more about the science behind building up  soil health from one of the best sources out there.  This background will help empower you as a consumer and home gardener as well as giving  
**0:05:09-0:05:25:**  you a base to get even more out of the expert interviews that we feature.  I know you didn't ask for this explanation but I did want to let you know that I really  appreciate you our audience and I view this show as building a relationship not just pushing  
**0:05:25-0:05:36:**  out marketing content.  Of course, you can always find more information and go to a deeper level on the topics we  discuss here by joining our private social network, globalfoodfarm.com.  
**0:05:36-0:05:53:**  We'd love to have you.  Okay, now that we have that out of the way, on with the show.  Following our new formats, I'm going to start this episode by sharing a clip from one of  
**0:05:53-0:06:06:**  Dr. Jill Klopertin's most in-demand recent topics.  She presented this information at the United Kingdom's groundswell event and has subsequently  shared it with our network.  
**0:06:06-0:06:18:**  In this clip, she explains why keeping the soil covered is so important and how plant  roots play a vital role in building up good soil structure, structure that life depends  on.  
**0:06:18-0:06:34:**  We need to actually cover the soil and remove or totally get rid of any kind of soil erosion  because as soon as we start losing our soil, we lose our capacity for any kind of soil  health because what runs off first?  
**0:06:34-0:06:39:**  It's the light stuff.  It's not the sand and the rocks and things.  It's the topsoil that runs off.  
**0:06:39-0:06:50:**  It's the organic matter that runs off.  It's the organic matter that dissolves and runs off.  We lose our entire capacity for having soil health as soon as we have any kind of runoff,  
**0:06:50-0:07:03:**  any kind of soil erosion of any kind.  The characteristic that really defines soil health or healthy soil is soil structure.  It's one of the easiest things to measure.  
**0:07:03-0:07:12:**  Infiltration can also be a measure of soil structure.  If we have good soil structure, we have better rooting.  We have created a better habitat.  
**0:07:12-0:07:20:**  As soon as we have the roots can penetrate the soil more, that means that they can get  more energy.  They can get more nutrients.  
**0:07:20-0:07:37:**  They can actually explore the soil more so that they can tap into these other nutrients.  The more they explore the soil and the more they find more nutrients, the more lateral  roots they'll make because lateral roots cause energy.  
**0:07:37-0:07:49:**  You need to have the photosynthesis in order to support lateral roots.  You can see once again how having better rooting gives you better above ground and better above  ground can give you more rooting.  
**0:07:49-0:08:05:**  Roots and soil are mixed with bacteria, fungi, protozoa, micro earthworms, insects, algae.  We all act to create soil structure.  This leads to better water and air infiltration, so better water and air quality.  
**0:08:05-0:08:17:**  You get root penetration, which gives you better above ground growth, which leads to  better rooting.  You get more predator-prey interactions, which means that you start to recycle your nutrients.  
**0:08:17-0:08:33:**  You have a greater diversity of soil organisms, which microorganisms and fauna.  Decomposition starts happening above and below ground and not just below ground because below  ground is our number one source of carbon.  
**0:08:33-0:08:47:**  We get a lot more plant communication, which means that resources are moving from a source  to a sink.  A plant in your row that's struggling perhaps or doesn't have quite enough can actually  
**0:08:47-0:09:02:**  be shuttled some of the nutrients it needs from the other plants that are within that  community.  As you can see from Jill's description, soil structure plays a key role in so many different  
**0:09:02-0:09:14:**  aspects of growing healthy food.  And the practices that farmers use on the field can play a big part in improving that  soil structure and therefore the health of the soil.  
**0:09:14-0:09:29:**  This will be helpful to keep in mind as you hear from our next guest.  I'm really pleased to be able to introduce you to another fantastic soil health educator  and consultant, Nicole Masters and her book, For the Love of Soil.  
**0:09:29-0:09:41:**  As noted in the introduction, she has a long history of helping others to improve their  soil health and in so doing improve their businesses, their lives, and of course the  food and fiber that comes from it.  
**0:09:41-0:09:54:**  In the first part of the interview, Jill and Nicole exchange insights about their shared  journey to improve soil health, followed by my interview with Nicole about her book.  Just look at the work.  
**0:09:54-0:09:57:**  Congratulations on the book.  Oh, thank you.  That means a lot.  
**0:09:57-0:10:06:**  It's a great book.  Yeah, as I'm getting more feedback from people who are like, you know, this, I was, you know,  hardcore conventional high input and this book changed my life and I'm like, that's  
**0:10:06-0:10:17:**  what it's about.  You know, and it's not the messenger, it's the message.  How do we find those catalysts to spark someone off and who knows what they're going to do,  
**0:10:17-0:10:31:**  but hopefully that involves using a lot less ag chemical and being more profitable and  having insects and everything come back.  But intuitively, Nicole, we all know that what you're doing is affecting food quality  
**0:10:31-0:10:38:**  and the nutritional composition of the food.  We just haven't been able to measure it yet.  Yeah, yeah.  
**0:10:38-0:10:50:**  So I'm very excited to be able to see us be able to do this because this is the piece  that's really missing.  And I think, you know, talking with the brands is a lot like the clothing brands are really  
**0:10:50-0:10:59:**  getting it, which is interesting.  And so it's like the clothing guys want to drive it.  They're not necessarily measuring nutrient density, but they're getting in behind it  
**0:10:59-0:11:14:**  because they're closer to a consumer that's saying, hey, we want this kind of output.  And I think the commodity market's kind of slowing things down, obviously on that side.  So it's like, how do we, how do we find these marketplaces and support the people that are  
**0:11:14-0:11:21:**  going to provide that?  Let's just go around the commodity system because we can't, I just don't know how are  we going to work within it?  
**0:11:21-0:11:31:**  Everybody holds up isolated cases.  What I hear all the time is like, oh, well, there's only one or two.  And I'm like, no, there's no, there are lots of people that are doing really amazing things.  
**0:11:31-0:11:38:**  You just don't hear about them all the time because some of them are really introverted  and they're just doing their own thing.  They're doing their work.  
**0:11:38-0:11:47:**  Little tiny things help other things.  That's why I like Whole Foods.  And I like people talking about whole systems is because we don't know what tiny little  
**0:11:47-0:12:03:**  change or what organism that changes everything, like does that metabiosis change?  We don't know what those organisms are.  And that tiny change might be in 10 years time going to change the whole thing.  
**0:12:03-0:12:09:**  Yeah.  And we have no idea.  I think, you know, being able to measure the quality of the food at the output is one way  
**0:12:09-0:12:21:**  that we can start to capture this without these huge data sets.  Well, it's also, you know, when you think about it, actionable results are really what  it counts.  
**0:12:21-0:12:25:**  What counts?  Like, what can I action?  I have all these numbers.  
**0:12:25-0:12:36:**  What do they mean?  Can I actually do anything to affect them, which is why we really need these curated  experiments so that we can start to understand what is changing.  
**0:12:36-0:12:40:**  How are we changing?  What are we doing?  I had this aha moment.  
**0:12:40-0:12:52:**  I work with horses.  I love horses, that kind of one of my first loves.  And this brilliant instructor I was working with said the premise of natural horsemanship,  
**0:12:52-0:13:03:**  which is a lot of my training is based on, is deeply flawed because it's based on animals  in the wild that are not domesticated that are in a flight or fight stage.  And you're basing all of these assumptions on that.  
**0:13:03-0:13:11:**  And I'm like, mind literally blowing.  Oh my God.  And so it's like, where do we come from when we are making some of these choices?  
**0:13:11-0:13:26:**  There could be a deeply flawed assumption that we decide a couple of decades time.  Well, we're not based on natural systems.  We're based on a very high intensity tillage based system with lots of chemical inputs.  
**0:13:26-0:13:41:**  And we're expecting to make decisions based on that and we can't.  I mean, it's sort of like when learning about nutrition.  I mean, most of our daily requirements are based on your average middle-aged man.  
**0:13:41-0:13:49:**  Well, I'm not that.  And so how does it work for me?  Yeah.  
**0:13:49-0:14:02:**  Well, I think it's the science of averages and what we're seeing are all these outliers  that is the really fascinating place and where the curiosity should be.  And scientists that I come across are ignoring the outliers.  
**0:14:02-0:14:13:**  And I'm like, surely as a scientist, the definition is curiosity is to let's look at those.  What is going on over there?  And it's been a little frustrating, I must say.  
**0:14:13-0:14:20:**  And now I'm just like, we'll just get on with it.  Get on with it.  Just move along.  
**0:14:20-0:14:36:**  Because the farmers are going to push hard and the producers are going to push hard.  And so either get out of the way or jump on the wagon.  Well, along those lines, I wanted to get maybe both of you to share your perspective about  
**0:14:36-0:14:48:**  so you talk about it a lot in the book.  And of course, your work with producers, Nicole, is that I've really tried to build this path  for value added capture for regenerative farmers.  
**0:14:48-0:14:51:**  They deserve it.  They deserve it.  And it should be there and all of that.  
**0:14:51-0:15:06:**  But I've had to kind of retreat back to, look, farmers should just do this for themselves  because it's so much better for their health, their personal health, their stress level,  their land, reduce their costs, reduce their inputs, all of that.  
**0:15:06-0:15:16:**  And they should still fight for a claim of the value that they're creating.  They shouldn't give up on that.  But especially with high inputs, that catches people's attention and adds another level  
**0:15:16-0:15:32:**  of stress for conventional farmers that maybe is an opportunity for some of them to come  back to come to this thing that may have been off putting to them or they may see it like  organic or another niche that seems like I can't be that or that's not me or you know.  
**0:15:32-0:15:42:**  So do you see that and what's your experience with this time and with the appeal to regenerative  to farmers that may be more open to transitioning?  Mm hmm.  
**0:15:42-0:16:00:**  I definitely think that nitrogen prices are very stimulatory on thinking outside the box.  And I make the pretty bold claim that I'll stand by is that I can walk onto any high  input conventional property, reduce their nitrogen inputs by 30% without any change  
**0:16:00-0:16:09:**  in yield.  And I'm very confident in being able to say that.  And I think that's got to be something that's attractive to people in terms of I want to,  
**0:16:09-0:16:20:**  you know, I asked this question in my workshops, which is what do you value about the current  modern conventional system?  Because there's entrenched values that people feel when we're talking about conventional  
**0:16:20-0:16:31:**  agri or regenerative agriculture that we're actually attacking their values.  Like it's not about this different idea.  It's about you are literally attacking what I care about and what I value.  
**0:16:31-0:16:38:**  Okay.  So what are the values of that in conventional agriculture?  Well, maybe it's efficiencies.  
**0:16:38-0:16:44:**  Maybe it's the machinery, the technology, the commodity market, not having to do all  the marketing.  Well, okay, cool.  
**0:16:44-0:16:57:**  Well, let's keep those pieces that are your values that work well.  We don't have to throw everything out with the bathwater and then look at how do we bring  that into a system where we are bringing more vibrant health to that ecosystem and fulfilling  
**0:16:57-0:17:11:**  on other things you might value, which might be your own health, you know, spending time  with family, profitability, whatever that piece is.  And I think what we're going through is a society of polarization where people can't  
**0:17:11-0:17:27:**  talk about anything, if that's guns or politics or immunizations or whatever.  And so we're creating this society that can no longer have any conversation about things.  And this is happening with conventional and regenerative is people like digging their  
**0:17:27-0:17:36:**  heels in and like throwing stuff over a parapet at each other instead of, hey, there's some  pieces of this that we know that work really well.  Okay, let's think about that.  
**0:17:36-0:17:47:**  And then what is the downside if we go too far in one extreme or the other and let's  talk about that.  You know, if you only build soil health, but you're not profitable and your animal performance  
**0:17:47-0:17:55:**  is suffering, okay, cool.  Let's pull that back a little bit.  You know, there's this pendulum of okay, for you as an individual, what are your goals?  
**0:17:55-0:18:04:**  How do we how do we work with that?  And I'm always concerned about dogma and the wrong and righteousness that kind of comes  into industries.  
**0:18:04-0:18:18:**  And I think that is very off putting to people, you know, people getting really adamant, let's  say glyphosate, you know, that's another one of these polarizing topics, people get real  mad about, hey, you're doing the best you can with what you've got, what are other ways  
**0:18:18-0:18:33:**  that we can help increase that efficacy while you work this out, you know, and maybe that's  going to take you three to seven years, I don't know what it looks like.  But I think it's out everyone's individual responsibility to, to just, just be empathetic,  
**0:18:33-0:18:39:**  just let's start listening to each other.  Yeah, that's my, I think I went down a rabbit hole.  I apologize.  
**0:18:39-0:18:45:**  No, it's wonderful.  Wonderful.  I know you share a lot of that, Jill, I've heard you talk in a similar vein.  
**0:18:45-0:19:01:**  It's all about helping people take the first step.  And part of that is just like Nicole said, is starting a conversation.  And understanding that there's so much similarity.  
**0:19:01-0:19:20:**  Like if we focus on what we have in common, instead of what we have, what we don't have  in common, I think we get along, we'll, so we'll move along so much better.  Because I mean, if we really looked at it, okay, I might be not this or I'm not that,  
**0:19:20-0:19:26:**  but I'm all these other things and so are you.  Well, we have a lot in common.  So let's focus on what we have in common.  
**0:19:26-0:19:36:**  Let's focus on the positive and not on the negative.  And let's not pigeonhole ourselves because there's all, I mean, there's thousands of  shades of gray.  
**0:19:36-0:19:47:**  Everything isn't just black and white.  And I think that's an important thing to think about too, is that, and everybody has their  own level of risk tolerance.  
**0:19:47-0:19:56:**  And what they can, and what steps they can take.  Maybe I could take this step, but you can take this other big step because that's your  level of tolerance.  
**0:19:56-0:20:01:**  Well, good.  Congratulations.  You know, but I'm happy for you to do that.  
**0:20:01-0:20:11:**  And I'm happy.  And please just tolerate the fact that I can only take a small step and embrace the fact  that I'm taking any step at all.  
**0:20:11-0:20:20:**  And I think that that's an important thing.  For people that aren't as familiar with you.  I mean, you've got this great book that's set for the love of soil.  
**0:20:20-0:20:32:**  And really, maybe just tell people what went into that and what does that give them when  they dive into that book?  Yeah, I was often asked to write a book for like soils for dummies.  
**0:20:32-0:20:48:**  And there's really nothing stupid about producers or soil.  So trying to find a way of my implicit understanding when I'm out in the field and I can see things,  you know, see what weeds are saying, what are these insects saying?  
**0:20:48-0:20:58:**  What are the species diversity and animal health?  How is this all speaking?  And then how do I make that explicit in a way that someone could take the book and walk  
**0:20:58-0:21:05:**  out in the field and start to think, you know, let's dig a hole?  What are we seeing here?  How do we know if this is healthy or not healthy?  
**0:21:05-0:21:11:**  What are the implications?  Is my water cycle working?  Am I even growing good nutrient dense food?  
**0:21:11-0:21:33:**  Yeah, so to just really empower somebody so that they can start to see and read the landscape.  And obviously producers, farmers and ranchers would get a lot from understanding the different  chapters that you go through and really talking about the underground microbiome, the livestock,  
**0:21:33-0:21:44:**  all of that helps make soil healthy.  But I found too, and I listened to the audiobook and I appreciate you reading it.  It's always nice to hear the author.  
**0:21:44-0:22:01:**  I mean, it's not a you know, you can go, oh, that's not hugely professional speaking voice.  But I must say every book that I've really enjoyed has been read by the author.  I mean, I think it's Braiding Sweetgrass.  
**0:22:01-0:22:11:**  It's just such a phenomenal book.  And she could be a professional reader.  But the impact that that has is someone actually speaking to you directly, it feels like.  
**0:22:11-0:22:24:**  Right, from their real experience, and you know, as you tell the stories, you know, you're  remembering them, you're sharing them.  But what I thought was great too, is that it's very accessible for consumers and for  
**0:22:24-0:22:34:**  people that aren't farmers.  I mean, there's obviously a lot of detail for the farmers.  But there are kind of a new class of consumers that are starting to get really interested  
**0:22:34-0:22:42:**  in this and understanding the link between soil health and the microbiome and their gut  health and all of that.  And so there's a tremendous amount of information for them.  
**0:22:42-0:22:50:**  Did you have consumers in mind as you're doing this book too?  How is that?  There's a challenge to balance these audiences.  
**0:22:50-0:23:04:**  How are you thinking about consumers?  Well, part of it too was thinking about anyone that eats food needs to know this.  What is actually happening in the food system and why in a way that's not like, oh, farmers  
**0:23:04-0:23:14:**  and ranchers are so bad, you know, they're doing all these terrible things.  And it's like, well, here's the structures that are in play and here's some of the history  as to why this has come about.  
**0:23:14-0:23:31:**  And I think understanding that is what empowers us too.  So that when you go to your farmer's market or you're in whole foods, you can ask specific  questions so that it's going to help against the greenwashing, I think, of food systems  
**0:23:31-0:23:37:**  where people will just say, oh, it's natural.  And you're like, wow, what does that actually mean?  Or it's regenerative.  
**0:23:37-0:23:46:**  Okay, can you explain to me what you, how you see regenerative agriculture?  You know, and spray free.  Okay, well, what does that mean?  
**0:23:46-0:23:54:**  Or organic?  Oh, you mean you've cultivated your fields a thousand times and chopped up all the microbiology?  Okay, I'm interested in what you're doing.  
**0:23:54-0:24:03:**  So yeah, it was very much, you know, if you eat food, let's think about what's in that  food.  What are some of the food additives that are not, you know, I often think we shouldn't  
**0:24:03-0:24:17:**  be labeling organic, we should be labeling what sprays went on to this food so you can  make a better decision about actually, you know what, I don't want dicamba and paraquat  and glyphosate to be on my food.  
**0:24:17-0:24:34:**  And that's back to the point you raised earlier with Jill too about glyphosate.  And that was great that you brought that up because, you know, environmental groups, you  know, well meaning in some cases, but they often will shine a light on one thing.  
**0:24:34-0:24:45:**  Just like just like, you know, brands will shine a light on one thing is like, it's,  is a positive.  Well, some of the activist groups shine a light on one thing that's a negative, and  
**0:24:45-0:24:55:**  both are missing the holistic link between everything.  Like it almost seems impossible for us to talk about a holistic system just kind of  like, like we're so polarized.  
**0:24:55-0:25:09:**  So we get into these S versus them, well, everything has a counter effect.  And so how do you, do you think farmers that you're working with, they already know that  and they've been pushed out of that because of kind of the input system that they have  
**0:25:09-0:25:19:**  to work within?  Or has it become less intuitive as they've gone to school and this is how you have been  taught this is how you farm?  
**0:25:19-0:25:38:**  I can't think of many producers that were born with it or had some of them had influences  from grandparents that still remember some of the traditional knowledge or working with  people that, you know, have exposure to indigenous traditional thinking and knowledge that are  
**0:25:38-0:25:49:**  thinking in whole systems.  But our whole education system, our whole language, you know, the Western language is  designed to describe things as nouns and separate everything.  
**0:25:49-0:26:03:**  And so we go through academics or we go through school or even how we're raised, we're raised  to see things in their separate pieces instead of the whole.  And that was part of the challenge of the book too, is that we can let's zoom in, but  
**0:26:03-0:26:14:**  then we need to keep zooming out.  We need to, and we do that for our own body.  It's like, I don't know, like say you've got a rash and you just put cream and you keep  
**0:26:14-0:26:24:**  putting cream on that rash until you get allergic to that cream probably instead of going, okay,  what have I been eating in the last week?  What am I washing my clothes in?  
**0:26:24-0:26:36:**  What's that piece?  And that diagnostic and that's where I think the diagnostics in this book that talk about  looking at landscape also apply of talking, of thinking about the human body and the more  
**0:26:36-0:26:48:**  that we can keep thinking, you know, how does this work in nature and what would be an unintended  consequence of doing this?  You know, I think the anti-brigade, like let's say glyphosate, we hate glyphosate, we're  
**0:26:48-0:26:58:**  going to ban it, is the other side of the hand of the, hey, we're going to use dicamba  and genetically engineer it.  It's not really shifting our whole system's thinking.  
**0:26:58-0:27:04:**  And if we ban glyphosate, you know what, there's going to be another chemical behind it and  it's probably going to be worse.  What about Paraquat?  
**0:27:04-0:27:20:**  Oh great, yeah, let's talk about Paraquat, shall we?  You have personal experience with that one.  Yeah, it's the joy of people that have had multiple chemical exposures from the womb.  
**0:27:20-0:27:35:**  So my mother and father were both, and my grandparents were exposed to PFOS and PFAS  through the military.  And so the influence that that's had on epigenetics and I have a gene called the MTHFR gene, which  
**0:27:35-0:27:46:**  about 40 million Americans have, but it gets switched on by exposure to chemicals early  in life.  And what it does is it means that the methylation pathway in my body to detoxify through the  
**0:27:46-0:27:56:**  liver doesn't work.  And that's why I got so sick with Paraquat.  But I think that's part of my passion is like, we can have a little bit of chemical exposure  
**0:27:56-0:28:06:**  and not get sick.  And we can do that even in agricultural settings.  If we set up a microbiome that's incredibly healthy and vibrant, you could have glyphosate  
**0:28:06-0:28:14:**  coming down in the rainfall.  You can have spriga from the neighbors and you still have a microbiome that's able to  consume and break that down and recover.  
**0:28:14-0:28:23:**  But we don't have that anymore.  So it's that, and thinking about that with our own human bodies, right?  How do I build resilience in every single aspect of life?  
**0:28:23-0:28:32:**  And that includes my mental resilience, my physical resilience and the resilience of  land.  Well, and that's why that's so interesting because a number of the producers in our network  
**0:28:32-0:28:48:**  that Jill works with, because they do no till, they always do never till.  Some of them do end up needing to use small amounts of glyphosate, much less than they  ever did.  
**0:28:48-0:29:01:**  And yet they test the end result of the actual grain and it's glyphosate free.  It's not there because to your point, their soil is so healthy from all the other things  that they've done, that any residual stuff, it's not sprayed on the crop and it's all  
**0:29:01-0:29:11:**  that and it's not used as a desiccant, of course.  And then the soil is able to break down completely whatever little amount was left before it  was planted.  
**0:29:11-0:29:22:**  And so if you're looking at the actual grain that they're going to sell, it doesn't have  it there.  And yet the system isn't designed to look at that.  
**0:29:22-0:29:32:**  The system is designed to just look at, did you ever use it and treat someone that ever  used it the same as someone that way overused it?  That caused a lot of problems.  
**0:29:32-0:30:04:**  Jill  Good Kerry  measuring. So you know, I'm in total agreement with your point,  
**0:30:05-0:30:12:**  Sarah.  Well, because when you push to ban certain things, again, not  in this holistic, like picking certain things, and we're going  
**0:30:12-0:30:20:**  to ban that, then you're going to push a lot of people to  tillage, you know, you're going to push, you're going to do  other kinds of destruction, that doesn't show up on the little  
**0:30:20-0:30:33:**  spotlight that you're looking at, but could be far more  destructive to the overall overall goal. And a lot of times  those edicts are being pushed by people that don't know anything  
**0:30:33-0:30:43:**  about the soil, about microbiome, about farming, about  anything, they just have their pet project that they're going  to drive this issue. And, you know, do a lot of harm.  
**0:30:44-0:30:53:**  Yeah. And I think there's so much research now about  glyphosate and about how destructive it is, but you could  point that to every single chemical. Yeah. All of them, if  
**0:30:53-0:31:06:**  you if you ran down that rabbit hole, I mean, there are a couple  I, I do think need to be removed from sale. And that would be  things like chlorpyrrolids and neonicotinoids, I do think  
**0:31:07-0:31:20:**  there's a couple that really don't belong to exist in the  world at all. And there's other ways that we can substitute in  terms of, you know, biocontrols on seeds, or, you know, these  
**0:31:20-0:31:32:**  other options. But I think in terms of glyphosate, it's, it's  easy to target it, because there is so much negative research  that's just growing, but then go and do that on paraquat go and  
**0:31:32-0:31:43:**  do that on dicamba or 2, 4-D, and we're not going to be happy  with any of them. So let's look at how do we do we need to do  crop rotations where every three years or four years, you take  
**0:31:43-0:31:52:**  that crop out, and you're going to put in, you know, multi  species cover crops, and allow that soil to recover and  rejuvenate, bring in livestock, what are you going to do to kind  
**0:31:52-0:32:01:**  of earn the right to use that chemical input?  That's a great way. That's a great way of reframing it,  because that's the other thing and to your point about being so  
**0:32:01-0:32:11:**  so partisan, and so just polarized, like if you say  anything of nuance about glyphosate, then you're  automatically accused of like shilling for the shilling for  
**0:32:11-0:32:20:**  the chemical companies, which, you know, our whole point is, we  want producers to be able to depend less on all of it less on  all of the inputs. And that's, and that's what you and Jill  
**0:32:20-0:32:31:**  help them do. And we want more producers to be able to depend  less on it. But you know, just the simplistic idea that people  outside of the knowledge of the system can come in and, and  
**0:32:31-0:32:38:**  start diagnosing like you wouldn't go in and tell your  brain surgeon, well, actually, I think you need to do it this  way. And I don't think you should be able to use that tool  
**0:32:38-0:32:46:**  at all ever.  Yeah, no anesthetic, just don't do that.  No, just actually, just cure me. That's what I  
**0:32:46-0:33:01:**  but you know, so I, I'm wondering too, because our  podcast is tasting terroir. And you know, I think that there are  increasingly you can, you know, if you if you have a garden, or  
**0:33:01-0:33:09:**  if you work with producers, you grow your own food, you know,  the difference that can come in the taste of something even just  because it's fresh and because you, you know, you picked it  
**0:33:09-0:33:21:**  right away and ate it. But then as you add these practices, have  you had experiences with seeing a change in flavor? Obviously,  the nutritional changes there. But have you yourself or with  
**0:33:21-0:33:28:**  others that you've worked with, see that connection? Or what are  your thoughts about that?  Oh, oh, absolutely. And I think of a couple of the minutes,  
**0:33:28-0:33:40:**  almost an orgasmic experience. Thinking back, there's a cherry  producer in, in the Hawke's Bay in New Zealand, that's been  running a program for quite a while. And every year just  
**0:33:40-0:33:51:**  before Christmas, because it's been cherry season is, you know,  I'd go and buy like three or four boxes, and I'd probably eat  like five pounds myself on the drive home, like the flavor is  
**0:33:51-0:34:01:**  insane. And now they've got to the point where there is a line  of traffic on the side of the road pre Christmas lining up,  and you're only allowed to buy one box of cherries, because the  
**0:34:01-0:34:13:**  demand is so huge. And so I have to bring like three friends so I  can get my three boxes. I'm like, No, I'm not sharing with  you. But it's, it's, it's like an experience that you can't  
**0:34:13-0:34:23:**  even, you can't even compare it to anything that we eat that you  buy from the grocery store. It's not like buying a box of candy  or, you know, just fruit and vegetables you would normally  
**0:34:23-0:34:36:**  buy like the, the experience is so nourishing, you know, and I  don't need to eat five pounds. And maybe I don't. But I do have  a bit of a thing for cherries. But I was at Apricot Lane Farms  
**0:34:36-0:34:49:**  this summer. And, you know, to eat that fruit that's coming off  that property, and it's like every single piece of fruit.  Just, there's like your palate, the whole thing's expansive, and  
**0:34:49-0:35:03:**  you feel literally like you're more energized after eating that  kind of food and have that kind of experience. And I think we've  forgotten. And I remember actually my son when he was, he  
**0:35:03-0:35:13:**  was two years old, and I couldn't find him and a terrible  parent. And I had these big long concrete steps. And I'm like, Oh,  my gosh, where is he? And I'm going crazy running around and  
**0:35:13-0:35:25:**  round and round. And then I went up to my dad's place, he was  like, I know 400 feet away. And there I find him underneath  this, we had one of these blood plums, like the Japanese blood  
**0:35:25-0:35:34:**  plums, and he's sitting underneath this tree. And he's  just, you know, just dripping everywhere with this incredible  fruit. And it's like, that little guy was like, I know where  
**0:35:34-0:35:43:**  the good stuff is. And I'm gonna, he's gonna go and test  for it. And actually watching him as a teenager, even eating  food out of our garden, we were growing a kale with a bricks of  
**0:35:43-0:35:56:**  15. I put that as a challenge to all of you that are listening.  You see if you can grow a kale at 15, because Oh, my gosh, it  is sweet. It is flavorful. And to watch him walk to school and  
**0:35:56-0:36:07:**  grab a handful of kale on the way to the school bus. And I'm  like, that's not normal. Like, children shouldn't want to grow  a handful of kale and eat that. But they we haven't kind of  
**0:36:07-0:36:18:**  destroyed their taste buds at that that stage of life either.  Yeah, well, that's that is the other important thing setting up  somebody's palate well from the beginning. And then also giving  
**0:36:18-0:36:30:**  yourself patience that that you can reset your palate, you know  that even if you haven't haven't been eating well, that you can  give yourself time and you will start to really both sense the  
**0:36:30-0:36:39:**  the subtleties of these, these different minerals that are in  healthy grown food and appreciate them.  Yeah. I think that was my biggest shock moving to the US  
**0:36:39-0:36:51:**  is I couldn't tell the difference between pork, lamb,  beef, chicken, because it just tastes like corn. And I'm like,  where? And then people are like, Oh, I don't like grass fed  
**0:36:51-0:37:02:**  because it's so gamey. And I'm like, what is that? Well, one,  that's not a gamey beef like that is a flavor profile that  maybe you don't want. But you know, I think of older spring  
**0:37:02-0:37:13:**  ranch out in Idaho, their beef is so sweet and so tender and so  flavorful, and they they're grazing on native prairie and  through their grazing management, they've increased  
**0:37:13-0:37:23:**  their ground cover and the species diversity by 300%. And  it comes through the meat, you can you can taste it. So I think  my challenge is sometimes dealing with people that only  
**0:37:23-0:37:34:**  want to eat stuff that tastes like corn is let's, let's play  a game. Let's really try and taste some of these different  things. And can you even taste it? And maybe kind of taste it  
**0:37:34-0:37:45:**  because you got ketchup all over everything or you're drinking  Coca Cola, I don't know. Yeah, I think what we've seen is, you  know, more salt and more sugar and preserve food. So that test  
**0:37:45-0:37:55:**  stuff is tasting better. Well, the food on the stores is taking  is tasting worse because there's very low nutrient density in it.  So I can understand why people are eating processed food. We  
**0:37:55-0:38:03:**  just got to get them over the bridge and onto good quality  food.  Yeah, well, and then in your last chapter, you talk about,  
**0:38:03-0:38:14:**  you know, like the future is now and the role of the consumer,  and I'm very passionate about that, too. I feel like consumers  have to both ask for better support better, and, you know,  
**0:38:14-0:38:23:**  really do more than just, you know, there's all this consumer  research that says that especially younger consumers  especially younger consumers, they want this and they want  
**0:38:23-0:38:34:**  that and they but obviously, they aren't following through  because the processors aren't providing it. I mean, they just  aren't they won't take it. With all the brand claims about  
**0:38:34-0:38:45:**  regenerative, you know, you would be surprised people would  be surprised to know that the inside of the food industry just  really doesn't want it. That is just a complication. You know,  
**0:38:45-0:38:54:**  if it were all just, you could keep the same commodity  structure, they'd be fine with it. But they don't they don't  want the personalized the connection traceability, you  
**0:38:54-0:39:02:**  know, all of that, at least that's my experience. What's  what's been yours?  Well, we were looking at developing a working with the  
**0:39:02-0:39:16:**  largest dairy producer in New Zealand to have a regenerative  label, right? And talk about, you know, this milk is higher  and CLA and all of these different components of milk.  
**0:39:16-0:39:26:**  And the reason that they turned us down in the end was, but that  makes our mainstream products sound like it's not as it's bad.  And they were like, Oh, okay, that I can see that as a  
**0:39:26-0:39:35:**  marketing problem. But also, I mean, the commodity system is  designed to make those suppliers a lot of money and not be paying  the producers. So really, it's the whole system that needs to  
**0:39:35-0:39:47:**  shift. And, you know, I, I'd like to think that consumers  have power, but really, it is these guys that are steering  where they get product from. And, you know, if you think of  
**0:39:47-0:39:58:**  some of these producers, I think of like Eastern Montana, it's  like, how are you going to get a product to someone's table in  California, you know, it's, it's incredibly difficult. And the  
**0:39:58-0:40:10:**  only place you can sell stuff into is the commodity market. So  I think if we can close the number of steps and create more  cooperative models, and be looking at the quality of what  
**0:40:10-0:40:22:**  we are then getting into the marketplace, and we're seeing  some really cool stuff. I saw some really good examples of  this when I was in the UK last week of producer groups getting  
**0:40:22-0:40:33:**  together, and actually having that supply chain, minimized,  how many steps are there before you get to marketplace. And  yeah, it's going to take a community in order to do that,  
**0:40:33-0:40:42:**  but very difficult to do by yourself.  There are a number of producers who are in some in our network  who are actually selling direct to the public and selling  
**0:40:42-0:40:54:**  through online. And what do you think about that? Because it's  obviously they're going to be limited in their scope, but does  that have the ability to shape the larger commodities and the  
**0:40:54-0:41:08:**  larger brands and what they're doing?  It would be nice to think so. I just think, you know, ranching  and farming, producing food is a full time commitment in itself.  
**0:41:08-0:41:17:**  And then we need to add on that next layer, or you're going to  add on chickens and turkeys. You're going to add all these  pieces, and then you're going to direct market that. And then  
**0:41:17-0:41:30:**  you're going to be talking to producers and consumers and, you  know, like that whole piece. It's friends of mine that do it  and do it very well. All I would say have ADHD, that people that  
**0:41:30-0:41:42:**  don't sleep, and it seems to thrive off high stress. And you  know, if that's your goal, then I think that's brilliant. Do it.  But I also think we need to be thinking as communities and how  
**0:41:42-0:41:52:**  do we do this more collaboratively instead of I'm  isolated, I'm separate, and I need to kind of control all of  this and do it all myself. Because it is a recipe for a  
**0:41:52-0:42:02:**  burnout. And then what are you dropping? Oh, okay, I don't  spend time with the kids.  Yeah. It's an excellent point. And then maybe that consumer  
**0:42:02-0:42:12:**  demand or questions could be turned toward a systematic  requirements or, you know, obviously, all of these buyers  have specs that they fulfill. Well, I know we're coming to the  
**0:42:12-0:42:21:**  end of our hour. So what is your definition of regenerative  agriculture?  This is the thing with definitions of hate boxes. It's  
**0:42:21-0:42:31:**  kind of like, what is the definition of conventional  agriculture? You know, good luck. So I like Lady Eve Balfour.  When she was talking about organics, she said organics is  
**0:42:31-0:42:45:**  an attitude. And I think that's a big part of regenerative  agriculture. So we define it as a way of being in the world. And  it's a way of being that encompasses complex, ecological  
**0:42:45-0:42:56:**  adaptive systems thinking. So it's the thinking that is given  by your way of being in the world. And for us, it's a  journey that you're on a journey of growing food, that or turf  
**0:42:56-0:43:08:**  and fiber that improves the outcomes for soil health,  biodiversity, ecosystem health, while producing high nutrient  dense quality food and happy producers. So if you're not  
**0:43:08-0:43:18:**  profitable, and you're miserable, and you're stressed  out, you're not regenerative. I'm sorry, in my definition.  Yeah, I think that's great. Well, thanks so much, Nicole.  
**0:43:18-0:43:25:**  No, I look forward to seeing what you guys create. The world  needs it. We are ready. So bring it on.  Okay. Thanks again.  
**0:43:26-0:43:36:**  All right. Thanks, Sarah.  Okay. You've been listening to Tasting Terroir, a podcast made  possible by a magical collaboration between the  
**0:43:36-0:43:49:**  following companies and supporters, all working together  to help farmers, chefs, food companies and consumers to build  healthier soil for a healthier world. Risotera, owned by Dr.  
**0:43:49-0:44:00:**  Joe Cloperton. Risotera is an international food security  consulting company, providing expert guidance on food  protection and expert guidance for creating healthy soils that  
**0:44:00-0:44:16:**  yield tasty, nutrient dense foods. Check us out at  risotera.com. That's R-H-I-Z-O-T-E-R-R-A dot com. And the  Global Food and Farm online community, an ad free global  
**0:44:16-0:44:30:**  social network and soil health streaming service that provides  information and connections that help you apply the science and  improving soil health. Join us at globalfoodandfarm.com. And  
**0:44:30-0:44:41:**  from listeners like you who support us through our Patreon  account at patreon.com slash tasting terroir. Patrons receive  access to our full length interviews and selected  
**0:44:41-0:44:52:**  additional materials. Patrons will also have the opportunity  to submit questions that we will answer on the podcast. Tune in  next week to hear more interviews and insights with  
**0:44:52-0:45:08:**  myself, Sarah Harper, and Dr. Joe Cloperton, as well as the  regenerative farmers, chefs and emerging food companies in the  Global Food and Farm online community and beyond. If you  
**0:45:08-0:45:21:**  like our work, please give us a five star rating and share the  podcast with your friends. Thanks so much for listening and  for helping us get the word out about this new resource to taste  
**0:45:21-0:45:52:**  the health of your food. Until next week, stay curious, keep  improving and don't stop believing that better is  possible when knowledge is available.  