---
title: Just How Healthy Is Grassfed Beef Depends On The Grass
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Tasting Terroir  (2023-01-30)  
### Author(s): Sara Hessenflow Harper  

**0:00:00-0:00:27:**  If we look at phytochemicals, these plant compounds with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory  effects, they're about three times higher on average compared to grain fed beef.  But amongst grass fed beef, the highest grass fed beef sample is 10 times higher than the  
**0:00:27-0:00:37:**  lowest grass fed beef sample.  So that is something to keep in mind, I think also for the consumer.  And then with the benefits for biodiverse forages, those are the farmers that have the  
**0:00:37-0:00:50:**  most nutrient dense meat.  Welcome back to our podcast, Tasting Tarroir, a journey that explores the link between healthy  soil and the flavor and health of your food.  
**0:00:50-0:01:00:**  I'm your host, Sarah Harper.  That was an excerpt from my interview with beef nutrient density researcher, Dr. Stephan  Van Vliet.  
**0:01:00-0:01:15:**  The findings that are emerging from this study are calling much needed attention to the fact  that it is multi-species pastures that create the true nutritional advantage for grass fed  beef, not just the fact that the cows avoided grain.  
**0:01:15-0:01:29:**  You've probably heard that grass fed beef is better for you than corn finished beef.  But it turns out that the benefits that come from grass finished beef depend a lot on what's  in the grass that they were finished on.  
**0:01:29-0:01:43:**  If the cows that became beef were eating a wide variety of different plant species, they  were not just a lot healthier than corn finished beef.  They were a lot healthier than beef raised on only one type of grass as well.  
**0:01:43-0:01:55:**  These and many other fascinating facts are being learned from the work of Dr. Stephan  Van Vliet, a researcher at Utah State University, leading the biggest nutrient density survey  of beef to date.  
**0:01:55-0:02:11:**  In this episode, we will learn all about his work and the implications it has for consumers  as well as the flavor of beef in our feature interview with Dr. Van Vliet.  But first, following our new format this season, I'd like to share with you a clip from one  
**0:02:11-0:02:24:**  of Dr. Jill Klopertens talks to our private online network, the Global Food and Farm Community.  In this clip, Jill explains how ranchers add biodiversity to their pasture, the kind that  results in this much better beef.  
**0:02:24-0:02:34:**  The stitching pastures is similar to over-sowing pastures.  It's not the same as pasture cropping.  So maybe we'll go through a few definitions here first.  
**0:02:34-0:02:46:**  Pasture cropping is more like your pasture goes dormant and then you grow a cash crop  on your dormant pasture.  So that would be what most people would consider pasture cropping.  
**0:02:46-0:03:02:**  In this case, you are rejuvenating a pasture or you are putting in a cool season pasture  after a warm season pasture.  So your warm season pasture goes dormant and then you seed in a cool season annual pasture  
**0:03:02-0:03:11:**  on top of your warm season.  And it's all about grazing.  So stitching pastures is about grazing.  
**0:03:11-0:03:26:**  It's about also seeding species that are like broadleaves into a grass pasture.  So in other words, let's say you have a pasture like an old pasture and some people will call  these improved pastures.  
**0:03:26-0:03:40:**  So there'll be Timothy or there'll be brome grass or rye grass or something, but they'll  be all grass because they've been in a long enough time and you're missing broadleaves.  And so the pasture starts to decline in productivity, but you want to boost it up a bit.  
**0:03:40-0:03:58:**  So if you want to boost your pasture up a bit, then the idea would be to stitch in or  seed in some broadleaf plants in order to make the forage in the pasture more palatable,  but also more nutritious for the cattle or whatever it is you're grazing.  
**0:03:58-0:04:08:**  There are specific ways to do this.  And one of them, you can't stitching or seeding into a pasture that's like really grown, like  grown up and hasn't been grazed.  
**0:04:08-0:04:16:**  That's almost impossible.  You could do it, but nothing would grow.  So what you want to do is go in after it's grazed or in the spring when things aren't  
**0:04:16-0:04:28:**  growing very fast and get some fast growing broadleaves in there so that when the grass  starts growing, you also have broadleaves in there.  And most of the time you would seed annuals, but you can seed perennials too.  
**0:04:28-0:04:40:**  And it's a way to rejuvenate an old pasture.  And with annuals, I mean, you could do it every year.  Ideally, what you'd want to do is let your annuals go to seed at least at some point  
**0:04:40-0:04:54:**  so that you have them growing again the next year.  It makes sense that cows fed on diverse pastures or forage would be healthier than those either  eating only one species of grass or getting fat on grain for the last few months of their  
**0:04:54-0:05:10:**  lives.  To learn just how much of a difference multi-species pastures make and how that happens, let's  turn now to my interview with beef nutrient density researcher, Dr. Stefan Van Vliet.  
**0:05:10-0:05:23:**  I'm so happy to welcome today to our podcast, Dr. Stefan Van Vliet, a researcher from the  Department of Nutrition, Food Sciences and Dietetics at the College of Agriculture and  Applied Sciences at Utah State University.  
**0:05:23-0:05:37:**  That's quite a mouthful.  And on this episode, we are going to dive into Dr. Van Vliet's most recent work, the  Beef Nutrient Density Project, which is the largest profiling to date of beef's nutrient  
**0:05:37-0:05:47:**  density and all the great findings that can come from that.  So thanks so much for joining us today.  Yeah, thank you so much for having me, Sarah.  
**0:05:47-0:05:54:**  It's a pleasure.  Well, great.  Well, to start us off, can you share more with the audience and keeping in mind this  
**0:05:54-0:06:05:**  is a lay audience.  Just what is the nutrient density that you were looking for in beef?  How is that defined and maybe why should consumers care?  
**0:06:05-0:06:16:**  Well, consumers should care because it is their health, right?  So that's an important one.  But if we look at the nutrient density, the term nutrient density, it doesn't per se have  
**0:06:16-0:06:29:**  a hard definition.  But what it's usually referred to, at least in science, is that the amount of particularly  micronutrients or phytochemicals with our plant derived antioxidants is the amount of  
**0:06:29-0:06:44:**  that per maybe, you know, given weight of a product per 100 grams or per four ounces,  for instance.  So if we have more vitamin E or vitamin A per 100 grams of product, then we would consider  
**0:06:44-0:06:52:**  that more nutrient dense.  Or if you have more polyphenols per 100 grams product or per four ounces of product, then  we consider that more nutrient dense.  
**0:06:52-0:07:07:**  So for a given amount of weight, we just have more nutrients in there.  And particularly, it's oftentimes referred to as micronutrients and phytochemicals, where  we refer to nutrient density and not so much fat or protein.  
**0:07:07-0:07:16:**  Yeah, well, that's great.  That's great.  Okay, so with that understanding, can you share more about the study's objective?  
**0:07:16-0:07:26:**  What were you looking for?  And why were you looking for it?  So in our previous work, which was through various USDA grants, we were profiling grass  
**0:07:26-0:07:46:**  fed beef farms and comparing them oftentimes with feedlot finished beef.  So in our earlier work, which we started a couple of years ago, we found important differences  in mainly fatty acids, also phytochemicals, certain B vitamins such as vitamin B3, few  
**0:07:46-0:08:04:**  nucleotides, which and peptides, which are things, for instance, an example could be  for H&E, which is an advanced lipoxidation end product, which is part of the reason why  sometimes red meat is considered a carcinogen through some groups at least.  
**0:08:04-0:08:13:**  So we first found lower amounts of that in grass fed beef, and that is tied also to animal  health.  So we started to find differences in these profiles.  
**0:08:13-0:08:26:**  And these go far beyond the omega-3 fatty acids, I must admit.  Previously people thought that, well, grass fed and grain fed beef is similar, but you  see some differences in omega-3 fatty acids, but we find about a 40% difference routinely  
**0:08:26-0:08:39:**  in nutrients far beyond omega-3.  So it's phytochemicals, nucleotides, B vitamins as well.  So we did it on a couple of farms and at some point I got approached by the Bionutrient  
**0:08:39-0:08:55:**  Institute, which we're working together with on the beef nutrient density project to see  if we could maybe do this in more commercial farms and do it at a bigger scale essentially.  So we started that project about a year and a half ago and we had, last year we had a  
**0:08:55-0:09:14:**  big round of analysis and then this spring we'll have another big round of analysis.  So the goal is essentially to study 250 farms, 750 steaks, so three steaks per farm, and  just look at everything from grass fed beef, so regenerative grass fed as oftentimes farmers  
**0:09:14-0:09:31:**  would highlight it as rotational grazing, continuous grazing, biodiverse forages, non-biodiverse  forages, as well as feedlot finished beef, where there's also a lot of differences in  this what we're finding depending on what the animal is fed.  
**0:09:31-0:09:43:**  So across these 250 farms, we're looking to profile supply chain, look at all the nutrients  in beef, define nutrient density and see how production practices impact the nutrient density  of beef.  
**0:09:43-0:09:57:**  And one thing you mentioned, and I think a lot of people are not aware of this, so they  may be aware of grass fed, but there are differences within grass fed.  So just like what you said about multi-species forage, maybe just share a little bit about  
**0:09:57-0:10:08:**  what is that?  Yeah, grass fed isn't grass fed, that's for sure.  I mean, especially amongst the grass fed beef samples, we find a tenfold variation in nutrient  
**0:10:08-0:10:13:**  density.  So that is quite a bit.  Yeah, so that's a little bit of a Wild West.  
**0:10:13-0:10:30:**  Certainly the most nutrient dense grass fed sample was about five or six times more nutrient  dense in these phytochemicals than feedlot finished beef, but the worst grass fed beef  sample was still three times lower than the best grass fed, than the best feedlot finished  
**0:10:30-0:10:46:**  beef sample.  So especially there, we find large differences, but what we're typically finding so far in  the pattern that starts to emerge is that when farmers do some sort of adaptive grazing  
**0:10:46-0:11:00:**  or well-managed grazing, usually that's rotational grazing, whether it's every few days or daily,  it depends on the specific operation, of course, what works best and the size of the paddocks.  We find a benefit for there.  
**0:11:00-0:11:17:**  So and at the same time, we also find a benefit for biodiversity.  So if a farmer has, let's say, five or ten plant species as opposed to maybe one or two  very dominant grasses, then we also find that the more biodiverse pastures and especially  
**0:11:17-0:11:33:**  also this could be things with like wildflowers or other maybe in western rangelands, shrubs  and forbs, that animals nibble on, may not be a huge amount of the diet, but they do  provide an important source of these phytochemicals, these plant derived compounds with potential  
**0:11:33-0:11:46:**  health benefits from the forages and that are being transferred into the meat.  So typically we find that more biodiverse forages and animals that are rotationally  grazed that don't overgraze the pasture, those are amongst the most phytochemically rich  
**0:11:46-0:11:52:**  samples.  So once again, it's like back to nature, does it?  Nature had it right.  
**0:11:52-0:12:07:**  You know, like if you're out there in the pasture and the pasture has all these different  kind of plants and all this diversity, that that cow is going to be healthier and then  the meat from it is going to be healthier than even if whether it's giving it a concentrated  
**0:12:07-0:12:15:**  amount of grass, you know, grass fed or grain, either either one of those systems doesn't  beat the diversity.  Right.  
**0:12:15-0:12:19:**  That's what you're saying.  That's indeed what we're finding.  Yeah.  
**0:12:19-0:12:32:**  So we are now doing human studies to see if what it is translates also into a human health  effect or not.  But what I do feel confident saying is that, yes, if we profile the meat, then on paper,  
**0:12:32-0:12:47:**  animals that were on biodiverse forages, this rich pasture of a variety of different plants  on paper, that meat looks the healthiest because it concentrates a lot more phytochemicals.  And we've also done profiling of the plant samples on the pasture.  
**0:12:47-0:12:59:**  So we would take we do a pasture walk and we collect samples from all over the pasture,  usually working with the farmers and observing the animals to the plants that they mostly  eat.  
**0:12:59-0:13:13:**  And so we collected those pasture samples and we also did similar analysis on that.  And what we're finding is that if there's more of these phytochemicals in the pasture,  the plants on the pasture, then that translates to more phytochemicals in the meat.  
**0:13:13-0:13:23:**  There's a relationship between the two.  So much like they say about humans, you are what you eat.  Cows also are what they eat and probably even more so because it's a much more controlled  
**0:13:23-0:13:32:**  environment.  So we go out and have a much larger selection of foods that we can eat.  We can go through drive-throughs, we can go to restaurants, we can have access to all  
**0:13:32-0:13:38:**  kinds of foods.  But with an animal on pasture, okay, the plants that are on pasture is what the animal has  access to.  
**0:13:38-0:13:51:**  And if those are more phytochemically rich, that translates to a direct enrichment of  these phytochemicals in the meat.  Yeah, that's just fascinating.  
**0:13:51-0:14:03:**  So Jill wanted to make sure and ask about giving the audience a sense of the kind of  samples that you need.  And you talked a little bit about the pasture, but what kind of samples did you need and  
**0:14:03-0:14:13:**  how many and how did you prep them and how did you analyze them?  Of course, you know, scientist to scientist, she's interested in all these details.  Nitty gritty, that's right.  
**0:14:13-0:14:27:**  So what we asked was we asked farmers to send in three stakes, three ribeye stakes from  three different animals.  So we wanted three biological replicates so that we don't put all of our eggs or all of  
**0:14:27-0:14:40:**  our ribeye stakes in one basket, I guess, because there's some variation from animal  to animal, even though even animals that are on the same pasture, different animals will  select slightly different plants.  
**0:14:40-0:14:49:**  So we wanted to make sure that we accounted for that variability within a given farm.  Then we also had...  So each stake was from a different cow?  
**0:14:49-0:14:56:**  Yeah, each stake was from a different cow, three ribeyes or one ribeye from three different  cows.  That's right.  
**0:14:56-0:15:05:**  That's right.  And then we also had farmers collect forages through detailed standard operating procedures.  And forages just means plants, right?  
**0:15:05-0:15:10:**  For people that maybe...  Yes, the plants on pasture.  That's right.  
**0:15:10-0:15:24:**  So they were collected through a pasture walk and then also soil samples were collected  from those pastures to also do soil testing.  So we test for soil organic matter and mineral content in the soil and total exchange capacity,  
**0:15:24-0:15:37:**  which is a measure of how well can the plant and the soil exchange nutrients.  And we tested then the forages and then the meat.  And we test those similarly.  
**0:15:37-0:15:50:**  And that basically is done by grinding up either the meat sample or the plant samples.  You will make it very cold on the liquid nitrogen.  It's a couple hundred degrees below freezing.  
**0:15:50-0:15:56:**  You grind it up to a fine powder.  You dissolve it in various reagents.  Usually it's methanol.  
**0:15:56-0:16:11:**  You go through a series of extraction procedures mainly to get any heavy proteins out.  And then you inject that sample into a mass spec.  And what a mass spec can do is it can vary in a very detailed manner.  
**0:16:11-0:16:24:**  It can identify individual compounds because all these compounds, for instance, these large  numbers of phytochemicals in the plants or in the plant fruits and as well as in the  meat, they all have a unique mass and a unique structure.  
**0:16:24-0:16:39:**  So some are structurally similar, but they're all slightly different from each other.  So if you know the structure of those and the mass of those, the mass spec can essentially  effectively detect those in very small quantities.  
**0:16:39-0:16:50:**  And then you can obviously compare among samples.  So sample A might have twice as much as sample B and sample C might have three times as much  as sample B. So that is the main way in which we detect those samples.  
**0:16:50-0:17:03:**  And that's used, the machine is called a mass spec.  So it can very detailedly look at the masses of these different compounds.  Well, that's great.  
**0:17:03-0:17:12:**  I'm wondering, was there any look at the health of the soil?  I mean, I know you're focusing on the meat, but you're doing the soil samples to look  at the impact on the meat.  
**0:17:12-0:17:22:**  But was there also any kind of look back at having the cattle on the pasture?  Did that make the soil healthier or is that that's too far outside of what you're looking  at?  
**0:17:22-0:17:34:**  At this point, yes, because in some of our other projects, we're doing repeated soil  sampling.  But for the farms that many of the farms that we're working with is more of a cross-sectional  
**0:17:34-0:17:46:**  study.  We don't know exactly yet the correlations between soil health and forage phytochemical  richness.  
**0:17:46-0:17:57:**  But we also did not collect samples over time.  So if a farm made a lot of improvements, right, we over the last few years, it's not like  we had a sample from a few years ago.  
**0:17:57-0:18:10:**  So that will be hard, hard to tell.  But what we do hope to study with that is that, okay, if you have more minerals in your  soil or more soil organic matter, does it also relate to higher forage phytochemical  
**0:18:10-0:18:15:**  richness?  And how does that relate to the meat?  So we are indeed looking at those relationships.  
**0:18:15-0:18:32:**  It's a little bit too early stages to really directly connect soil health to animal health.  But we are seeing this pattern, a strong pattern emerge between plant phytochemical richness  and the micronutrients in the plants and the nutrients that we find in the animal.  
**0:18:32-0:18:45:**  That relationship is starting to emerge.  You mentioned the benefit from the diversity.  But is it the diversity of the plant species or the soil health that's affecting the plant  
**0:18:45-0:18:54:**  health?  Or can you tease that out?  Or is it coming from the soil health that then creates the diversity in the pasture?  
**0:18:54-0:19:06:**  Or is it more just the diversity of species?  Yeah, I think it's a combination probably.  It's sort of circular, I would almost say, because even if you pull in the animal, right,  
**0:19:06-0:19:15:**  and then it can have a beneficial effect on the soil.  It's all sort of a symbiotic relationship also between the animal and the plant and  the soil.  
**0:19:15-0:19:28:**  Of course, between the plant and the soil.  We know from other literature, if you have more nutrient rich soils, that there's likely  that there can be greater biodiversity.  
**0:19:28-0:19:44:**  But we also know at the same time that more biodiversity enriches the soil microbes.  So there's this feedback between the plant and the soil.  And then of course, when you have proper animal impact, by proper I mean, not overgrazing,  
**0:19:44-0:19:54:**  then there can also be nutrients being put back into the soil, right, that's through  the urine and the feces of the animal that enriches the soil that can then enrich the  plant again, and then go back to the animal.  
**0:19:54-0:20:08:**  So it's really a sort of a symbiotic relationship where all three can strengthen each other,  essentially.  It's usually when we get to the human where we take more and then we sometimes give back,  
**0:20:08-0:20:12:**  right?  Yeah.  Well, that's why also, and I know this is outside of the scope of what you're looking  
**0:20:12-0:20:33:**  at, but so often in the marketing of what's healthy, there's like one aspect that's focused  in on either as a negative like glyphosate, get it out completely, or grass fed, zero  in on one aspect or cows are bad for the climate, like one aspect and they exclude the rest  
**0:20:33-0:20:44:**  of the story.  And so it looks like a lot of what you're doing is, which is so hard, is looking at  this holistic story, because that's how you actually find what's actually happening.  
**0:20:44-0:20:58:**  If you just zero in on one or two things, you could be right about those one or two  things and be wrong overall, because you're missing the whole picture.  Yeah, and that is such an important point, because what we see typically in a lot of  
**0:20:58-0:21:15:**  our work is that also, and it becomes very nuanced very quickly, it is not that straightforward  as in, as like you said, oftentimes there's a simplified narrative, cows are bad, plants  are good, we look at emissions, right?  
**0:21:15-0:21:30:**  And of course, I mean, if animals are overgrazing pastures, which can create a monoculture,  there's an inefficient recycling, improper recycling of nutrients, then yeah, it can  be very detrimental.  
**0:21:30-0:21:41:**  Absolutely.  We know this from historical overgrazing, especially here in Western rangelands.  But at the same time, there's also many farmers and hopefully an increasing number of farmers  
**0:21:41-0:21:56:**  that try to mimic sort of more nature based solutions as what the agroecology really is,  it's moving animals around regularly.  So you know, during the grazing season, you can put them on a pasture and animals will  
**0:21:56-0:22:10:**  graze the same plants, they have the same spots, right?  Or if the animals are moved properly, and then graze pastures only for a short period  of time, leave plenty of plant matter, have good animal impact and move on to the next  
**0:22:10-0:22:26:**  pasture, then yeah, you can really start to see improvements over time in in soil organic  matter and plant biodiversity.  And that is, of course, I think a nuance that is oftentimes forgotten when we move through  
**0:22:26-0:22:38:**  more simplified narratives and try to make these complex issues into a sort of a one  sentence headline.  And that's why I think it's so important.  
**0:22:38-0:22:52:**  That's what this podcast is really trying to get at to help consumers have, you know,  a deeper understanding of these issues so that they're kind of inoculated against some  of the marketing claims that that may not be quite so accurate.  
**0:22:52-0:23:03:**  But you mentioned some of the some of the results that you found, but but maybe just  go a little more in depth into the most important findings in your mind of what you've what  you've learned so far.  
**0:23:03-0:23:19:**  So the most important findings, I think, is that a cow is absolutely what they eat.  I mean, there's such a strong relationship between the phytochemicals in the forage and  the forage and the phytochemicals that end up in the meat.  
**0:23:19-0:23:32:**  And one thing that was also surprising to me, well, there's a few things that stood  out is a initially to work at focus on omega three fatty acids.  And oftentimes what we hear is that there's not much difference between grass fed and  
**0:23:32-0:23:38:**  grain fed animals.  But actually, there's large differences.  If you look at a broader number of compounds.  
**0:23:38-0:23:53:**  So if you look at maybe 500 compounds, 600 compounds, then we can see these differences  in phytochemicals, B vitamins, we can see differences in aco carnitines and what aco  carnitines do in humans.  
**0:23:53-0:24:09:**  Long chain aco carnitines, which are essentially sort of guarantees are lipid transporters,  they transport long chain fatty acids towards the mitochondria where they're used.  Mitochondria is really the powerhouse of the cell in both our bodies, but also cattle,  
**0:24:09-0:24:21:**  it's really conserved across species.  So if you're effectively able to transport nutrients into there and fats for producing  energy, that's a very efficient and healthy way of doing so.  
**0:24:21-0:24:35:**  So we see that the cows kind of, they have the opportunity to do so better than a feedlot  animal.  So to give you an analogy is that the animals on pasture looks very similar, like a healthy,  
**0:24:35-0:24:46:**  physically active human.  And then the cows on the feedlot and it looked like more of a sedentary human that is maybe  not on the healthiest of diets, right?  
**0:24:46-0:24:49:**  With a big beer belly.  Yeah, kind of.  Yeah.  
**0:24:49-0:24:57:**  Yeah.  A potato, a potato cow.  Not moving around, working on a cubicle, not getting any exercise.  
**0:24:57-0:25:03:**  Getting fast food, right?  So yeah, no, that's really interesting to see that you can kind of see those analogies  between the two.  
**0:25:03-0:25:18:**  So that was initially a very interesting takeaway also.  And then another interesting finding that we make is that, you know, oftentimes you  hear it again, it's a simplified narrative because not all food sources are the same  
**0:25:18-0:25:25:**  and not all saturated fatty acids are the same, but oftentimes you hear saturated fat  is bad for you.  It has to be limited.  
**0:25:25-0:25:41:**  Basically my question is, well, what is the saturated fatty acid composition?  Because saturated fatty acids can be all the way from four carbon lengths, carbon chains  in length, all the way up to, we measure all the way up to 24.  
**0:25:41-0:26:01:**  And we know that the longer chain saturated fatty acids in population based studies are  actually protective of heart disease and diabetes.  Now what we also found was is that with animals that are on a biodiverse forages or on grass,  
**0:26:01-0:26:16:**  we saw an enrichment in these omega-3 long chain fatty acids, but we also saw an enrichment  in the saturated fatty acids, these very long chain ones that may be associated with a decreased  risk of disease in humans.  
**0:26:16-0:26:30:**  So even though we don't find a difference in total saturated fat between grass fat and  grain fat, the composition is shifted positively in grass fat.  So that was another very interesting finding that initially was not on our radar.  
**0:26:30-0:26:46:**  And then another very interesting finding that we made is that I alluded to earlier,  4-HNE is a product that can cause oxidative stress and inflammation in humans.  So it's been well studied in humans particularly.  
**0:26:46-0:27:00:**  And then what we found was is that there are actually already lower amounts of that.  So those are some of the reasons why red meat may be considered not so beneficial sometimes.  Again it becomes very nuanced because the background diet in which you eat it, if you  
**0:27:00-0:27:12:**  eat red meat as part of a fast food diet or a Mediterranean diet, it's a day and night  difference your health outcomes.  But okay, for sort of a simplified idea, what we find is that this compound 4-HNE, which  
**0:27:12-0:27:33:**  is a negative compound, that is actually related to the metabolic health of the animal.  So if the animal has glucose, their glucose metabolic health is not as good because maybe  they're ingesting a lot of grains, then we see just like humans, they kind of get like  
**0:27:33-0:27:48:**  sort of a phenotype that looks like pre-diabetes almost.  So we see that also in the animal and the 4-HNE and these advanced glycation end products,  as the name suggests, glycation, they come from sugars.  
**0:27:48-0:27:59:**  So if the animal has more sugars in their body, you actually already start to create  more of those products that can be detrimental downstream to the consumer.  But if the animal is healthier, it has less of these advanced glycation end products.  
**0:27:59-0:28:11:**  So you already have a sort of, through which you feed the animal, you can already shift  the nutritional profile by having maybe more positive compounds and less of some potentially  negative compounds.  
**0:28:11-0:28:29:**  And that was a very interesting finding that you can make those differences already by  two main factors, which is the physical activity of the animal and what you feed the animal.  It almost sounds like the differences are significant enough that it should almost be  
**0:28:29-0:28:49:**  called something different because this diverse forage fed beef seems to act very differently  in terms of its nutrient density than grain fed or even single species grass fed.  And a lot of the warnings, as you mentioned, the warnings to health about inflammation,  
**0:28:49-0:29:00:**  about heart disease, about four quote red meat, that's almost all going to be conventionally  raised, right?  So those warnings are about this subset of meat of beef, not this other way of doing  
**0:29:00-0:29:13:**  beef because that's not been widely done.  Yeah, and it's also not been widely studied, to be honest.  I mean, usually the recommendations are about all beef and certainly it becomes, again,  
**0:29:13-0:29:29:**  very nuanced because usually people in population based studies that eat a lot of red meat also  do other things that are not as good for their health.  You can try to account for them in studies statistically, but typically high meat eaters,  
**0:29:29-0:29:37:**  at least in many cohorts, also eat less fruits and vegetables or less physically active,  drink more and smoke more.  So there are some differences there.  
**0:29:37-0:29:49:**  You can account for that statistically.  And then typically you do see that the associations of red meat with metabolic disease move closer  towards a neutral risk.  
**0:29:49-0:30:03:**  One study that popped to mind right now to me is Alberta's Tomorrows Project.  And it was a very interesting one because they looked at red meat in the context of  high intakes, a pound a week.  
**0:30:03-0:30:20:**  But they also looked at the influence of co-ingestion of vegetables.  And what they found was that people that ate high amounts of red meat, but ate them alongside  high amounts of fruits and vegetables, they actually had a protective effect.  
**0:30:20-0:30:31:**  It might not have nothing to do with the meat, but what that tells you is that diet quality,  the background diet in which you consume red meat is very important as is the quantity.  So there's two aspects to it.  
**0:30:31-0:30:48:**  Is that you can look at the meat sort of from a nutritional composition standpoint and point  out some nutrients that may be beneficial, that may be not as beneficial, but then also  largely what we base our recommendations on red meat on is also on population based studies.  
**0:30:48-0:31:02:**  And unfortunately, people probably potentially like you and me that eat red meat in the context  of a very otherwise very healthy diet, right?  They are the minority.  
**0:31:02-0:31:15:**  Well, I know that taste isn't one of the things that you were analyzing, but the different  compounds, the phytochemicals, the other things that you found that were present in significantly  different amounts.  
**0:31:15-0:31:32:**  Can you see a link back to taste or other people looking at that?  Or is that an area that we might expect to see more about in the future?  Certainly these compounds that we measure, the phytochemicals, they're also taste compounds.  
**0:31:32-0:31:44:**  Yes.  Now, I am not an expert in taste or at least in that type of research and this work when  we started doing this work, obviously there was already literature before this and this  
**0:31:44-0:31:58:**  was specially done in the context of cheeses from French and Italian researchers.  And while we study these compounds, sort of, and I'm a human nutrition scientist, so I  look at these compounds from the human nutrition aspect and I'm thinking, well, these potent  
**0:31:58-0:32:13:**  health benefits that may be antioxidants, anti-inflammatory, it may have some potential  anti-diabetic effects, at least in laboratory models.  What the French and Italians were doing, they were looking at it from the standpoint of  
**0:32:13-0:32:28:**  how can we create these unique flavors in our cheeses by what we feed the animals.  If we feed the animals this forage that has more sage, for instance, sagebrush, do we  get more of a sage flavor in there?  
**0:32:28-0:32:44:**  And so it's kind of like providing these flavor compounds is almost like sometimes you  say marinating the meat from the inside out.  If you have an animal that eats, for instance, a lot of plants that are rich in quercetin  
**0:32:44-0:32:56:**  or chlorogenic acids, which are found in onions, then yeah, you probably get a slight onion  flavor in your meat already.  So certainly by what you feed the animal and these phytochemicals, besides being a potential  
**0:32:56-0:33:08:**  health promoting compounds, they are also potent flavor compounds.  And then it gets back, I mean, our podcast name is Tasting Terroir.  And that's kind of the point that we've been trying to bring to people is that the ability  
**0:33:08-0:33:17:**  to taste that is not just about wine.  That's the popular one that everybody focuses on.  But of course, the way things are grown in a particularly in an animal or the milk or  
**0:33:17-0:33:38:**  cheese or meat that come from it, it makes total sense that that's going to be affected.  And so then a diverse pasture, you know, linking into the environment that you know, that the  weather and then what the weather can encourage to grow in terms of the in the pasture.  
**0:33:38-0:33:54:**  And then of course, some some hand that the that the rancher has and selecting different  species in the pasture, all of those things could go into this, this unique brand of beef  or cheese because of both the management and the genetics and the soil, all of these things  
**0:33:54-0:34:05:**  together.  The holistic management, the outcome of that, though, could be this very distinct taste  that could be, like you said, that it marinated from the inside out, like a naturally produced  
**0:34:05-0:34:13:**  flavor advantage could be where we're where we're going.  Yeah, absolutely.  And I love the analogy with wine, because yeah, people have grown different varieties  
**0:34:13-0:34:24:**  of wine in different soil types, right.  And that is really trying to get these flavor compounds into the wine.  And essentially, we're doing the same thing with meat here, when when people are people  
**0:34:24-0:34:38:**  are doing that with biodiverse forages, getting unique flavors in there, and unique potentially  health promoting compounds.  So so that also tells you that the connection of flavor and health and nutrient density,  
**0:34:38-0:34:52:**  there's likely a connection between those things.  So it's almost like, though, we need a new term, like wild fed beef or something, you  know, because, you know, we get that sense from fish, you know, farm fish versus wild  
**0:34:52-0:35:05:**  caught, you know, you right away, you get this concept, but we don't really have that.  I mean, all of our cattle are domestic.  But is there is there a thought going into that in terms of helping the beef industry  
**0:35:05-0:35:13:**  to help inform consumers like what it is that they're providing?  It's different.  Yeah, at the moment, it's very much a grassroots movement, right?  
**0:35:13-0:35:28:**  It's like with grass fed beef farmers, they often do direct marketing.  And yeah, well, there's no standard currently, I mean, you know, if you buy grass fed beef  in the grocery store, you don't know what it was on, right?  
**0:35:28-0:35:40:**  It could have been on over grace monoculture pasture, it could have been on a biodiverse  pasture.  Now, what I've noticed certainly is that a lot of the farmers that are doing direct marketing  
**0:35:40-0:35:52:**  to consumers, they are doing that because they're proud of their beef.  And it's because they have duties grazing practices that they think, okay, this improves  the quality of my beef, I want to get a premium for it.  
**0:35:52-0:36:05:**  And so the best way probably for consumers is connecting with local farmers and learning  about their production practices.  I have yet to meet a farmer that is doing these rotational grazing practices and is  
**0:36:05-0:36:15:**  grazing biodiverse forages that doesn't want to tell you about it, or that doesn't want  to show it to you as well, right?  Because it is something to be proud of, of course, right?  
**0:36:15-0:36:28:**  And so the best way probably at the moment is sort of connecting with local farmers that  are doing these practices.  And certainly the internet also has been incredibly helpful with connecting with a variety of  
**0:36:28-0:36:38:**  farmers.  But yeah, it is true that we've done profiling from samples out of the grocery store and  yeah, it's a mixed bag.  
**0:36:38-0:36:48:**  Absolutely.  Well, that's, that is the thing, it's becoming more available, whether it's a CSA, or buying  half a cow, or you know, all these things where you can buy directly from the person  
**0:36:48-0:36:55:**  that raised it.  And that we have a number of those folks in our network, and I know a number of them were  involved in your study.  
**0:36:55-0:37:08:**  And so it's exciting for them to be able to have this true advantage that they can and  then looking pointing to your research as a way to help consumers understand, like,  it's not just me, I'm not, it's not just that I think this is better, like, here's the actual  
**0:37:08-0:37:15:**  science behind it.  And is that part of what helps is what this is for in terms of beef producers?  Absolutely, absolutely.  
**0:37:15-0:37:28:**  So it's very much a long term scientific project.  But so we are, that's what we're grateful for farmers that they're willing to participate  and in the science as well, obviously, we give them also their data back.  
**0:37:28-0:37:39:**  But the long term goal is to create sort of an open access database, almost like a dashboard,  essentially, where people can go on farmers, the public, and then they can just see the  results of this.  
**0:37:39-0:37:49:**  And they can see, okay, this is the variation across the samples.  If I click on this sample, that's very high or sample is very low on the nutrient density  table.  
**0:37:49-0:37:57:**  Where is this?  You know, what were the grazing practices.  So we hope to provide accountability and openness and transparency.  
**0:37:57-0:38:08:**  And then hopefully that can uplift the entire industry and also that farmers can learn from  each other and exchange ideas.  And basically, we just have a good transparency, okay, what is the supply chain?  
**0:38:08-0:38:24:**  And what is perhaps the trajectory, the growth trajectory that we want to strive for?  And Jill also wanted to ask about this study that you're doing and then other studies that  have been done.  
**0:38:24-0:38:37:**  And when you when you kind of include these other studies in this direction, what are  what can ranchers and consumers take away from the results?  I guess, in other words, is this like stand apart from the other research?  
**0:38:37-0:38:49:**  Or is there other research going in a similar direction and confirming it?  Or what's what's kind of how does this fit within what other research has been done?  Yes, certainly, we are building up a previous research.  
**0:38:49-0:38:56:**  So that's the golden rule in science.  Also, if you can think of it as a good chance, someone has thought about it long before you  ever did.  
**0:38:56-0:39:06:**  So but what was really an inspiration to us?  As I mentioned, this was the work done in the 90s and the 2000s by French and Italian  researchers, mainly in dairy.  
**0:39:06-0:39:19:**  So this was mainly done in cheese.  And they were looking at, okay, what's the relationship between these phytochemically  rich forages, these plants on the mountain pastures, so maybe on Sardinia, and they all  
**0:39:19-0:39:35:**  Alps the Pyrenees, right, and they found, okay, these pastures that are very biodiverse,  probably because they've been not touched by humans as much yet, right?  These provide very unique cheeses and unique flavors.  
**0:39:35-0:39:50:**  So initially, when we looked at that research, we saw this direct relationship between the  phytochemicals and the nutrients in the forage having a beneficial effect on the cheese.  Then we took that and we were interested, well, and has been somewhat done in lamb and  
**0:39:50-0:40:04:**  also in beef from other groups, but haven't been done in North America as much.  And we also, these early studies, they may have looked at like 10 compounds or 15 compounds,  and we're looking at a few hundred now.  
**0:40:04-0:40:18:**  So we've just sort of built on that work and obviously, you know, as time wears on, I'm  sure in 50 years from now, people will be doing thousands of compounds as the field  progresses.  
**0:40:18-0:40:29:**  But essentially, we are making similar findings as some of the earlier work that was found  in cheese.  And that was also a big inspiration for our work to do this in North American ruminants,  
**0:40:29-0:40:38:**  particularly in meat.  So we've done some of this work now, mostly in beef, but we've also done profiling studies  in bison.  
**0:40:38-0:40:52:**  So grass fed bison and feedlot finished bison.  Certainly feedlot finished bison is different from feedlot finished beef, because bison  they're still semi wild animals, even though they've bred to be domesticated, and a lot  
**0:40:52-0:41:00:**  of them are beefalo.  So they have some beef genetics in them.  But they typically have more space in a feedlot.  
**0:41:00-0:41:11:**  And oftentimes, they are also fed a little bit less grain.  So we've done some profiling work with that.  And you can see that also it falls kind of, you know, if you have a bison on the biodiversity  
**0:41:11-0:41:20:**  versus a feedlot.  There's differences, obviously, but they're not as dramatic as grass fed beef and grain  fed beef in general.  
**0:41:20-0:41:34:**  Now, certainly that's painting with broad strokes, because, as I mentioned, there's  large variation in the grain fed beef and there's large variation grass fed beef.  The best grain fed beef sample still more nutrient dense than the worst grass fed beef  
**0:41:34-0:41:44:**  sample.  But in general, grass fed beef is more nutrient dense in these phytochemicals.  But we've also done some profiling on wild game.  
**0:41:44-0:42:01:**  So deer, venison.  And those were among some of the highest samples that we tested.  But these also came from animals in Hawaii that were on mountain pastures, very biodiverse.  
**0:42:01-0:42:15:**  And those were actually the most phytochemically rich samples that we've tested so far.  That's certainly an interesting finding, but we're also building this up now to other species.  We've done some work in chickens as well.  
**0:42:15-0:42:34:**  There are also, again, the pattern emerges if the chicken feed is more phytochemically  rich or if they're on more biodiverse forages and they have some outdoor access, then, yeah,  that has a beneficial effect on the nutrients in chicken as well.  
**0:42:34-0:42:43:**  So the term that consumers maybe need to be on the lookout for is multi-species forage  finished.  Yeah, right.  
**0:42:43-0:42:48:**  Yeah.  Or biodiverse grass fed or something like that.  Yeah.  
**0:42:48-0:43:00:**  Biodiverse grass fed or multi-species grass fed.  That is usually, I mean, that is not currently an accepted term.  You cannot find that at a grocery store at the moment.  
**0:43:00-0:43:10:**  And I don't know if we'll ever, to that extent.  But you can definitely learn this from your farmer.  Absolutely.  
**0:43:10-0:43:18:**  Right.  When you're having the conversation with the farmer, that's something you can ask about.  And if they have no clue, well, then that tells you something.  
**0:43:18-0:43:29:**  But if they dive right in, oh yes, and let me tell you all about the amazing different  things growing in our pastures, then that's the key.  That's the key that unlocks the benefits.  
**0:43:29-0:43:36:**  Yeah, absolutely.  Absolutely.  And most of the farmers that have biodiverse forages, and it's also related, they practice  
**0:43:36-0:43:46:**  some sort of wild man's grazing with regularly moving the animals.  And because you regularly move the animals, you actually can create some more biodiversity  in your pastures.  
**0:43:46-0:44:03:**  Because one thing that we have noticed, but it's also found in the broader literature,  is that overgrazing typically leads to a monoculture.  Well, you mentioned before that beef producers who are doing this could use this to kind  
**0:44:03-0:44:12:**  of help explain the science behind what they're doing.  But are there other ways in which beef producers can use this research?  Yeah, I think so.  
**0:44:12-0:44:33:**  As the research progresses, we are definitely looking at some of the best practices and  can we see a consistent pattern with, okay, the amount of forage that you potentially  need and what are some of the practices that you can use that consistently produce the  
**0:44:33-0:44:41:**  most phytochemically rich beef.  So that is one way of looking at that, that hopefully we can also have farmers learn from  each other.  
**0:44:41-0:45:00:**  I think that's very important also, because I always say, I'm a scientist, first and foremost.  So I can't tell you how to farm.  I can just, the only thing I'm doing is that we're profiling samples from farmers that  
**0:45:00-0:45:12:**  usually tell me, hey, Stefan, we're doing this and these type of practices.  I think it makes my beef or my animals healthier.  I think it makes my beef healthier, but I don't have data.  
**0:45:12-0:45:26:**  And then we test that and oftentimes the farmer is indeed right.  So what we're oftentimes just doing is just verifying hunches of the farmers and trying  to find out what are some of these best practices.  
**0:45:26-0:45:41:**  And then hopefully then farmers can use that and learn from each other and see how they  can best implement that in their practices.  But yeah, I'm certainly not in any position to tell people how to farm because that's  
**0:45:41-0:45:49:**  very complicated.  And farmers in a way are scientists themselves.  If they were to do what they do as part of a scientific experiment, they could probably  
**0:45:49-0:46:01:**  get a degree.  Well especially because it's so many of the paths for regenerative or healthier grown  food to market, they get clogged at the processing stage.  
**0:46:01-0:46:15:**  They can't get to the consumer because the whole industry of processing basically doesn't  want what they have for a lot of reasons, added expense, all of that undermines their  other products that they sell.  
**0:46:15-0:46:30:**  But in this case, because this kind of beef is so different, it's so outside the system  that pretty much you only get it by working directly with the farmer.  And so they already have had to set up their alternate path to build a direct market to  
**0:46:30-0:46:37:**  the consumer.  So they've already built that.  And now with this research, they're able to learn not only to verify what they've done,  
**0:46:37-0:46:52:**  but to learn from, like you said, from other producers.  And so multi-species we know is good, but maybe this species of plant adds this benefit.  Or over time, will you be able to see those finite, those fine differences?  
**0:46:52-0:47:06:**  I'm sure we can see fine differences like that with enough samples.  By the time we maybe get to 250 farms, then I think we can start to tease out some more  details on that and the relationship with soil health because we'd have a large enough  
**0:47:06-0:47:14:**  data set.  Is there a particular plant that stands out right now as a likely winner to have in the  pasture?  
**0:47:14-0:47:29:**  Well, no, it's not that easy.  I don't know if there's like a specific plant per se, because it's, you know, the pasture,  someone in North Dakota will look different than someone in North Carolina and then someone  
**0:47:29-0:47:32:**  in Utah.  Yeah, they should.  Yeah, that's right.  
**0:47:32-0:47:47:**  So, but what I can tell you is that even though, you know, we're working with farmers here  that might graze some more, the cattle might graze some more shrubs and forbs as opposed  to maybe more pure grasses out east, right?  
**0:47:47-0:47:58:**  But we still see this benefit for biodiversity, but there will be a different, as they call  it, a different terroir, right?  It will be based on the geographical region.  
**0:47:58-0:48:09:**  There will be some slight differences, but I think that's something we should embrace.  We appreciate that with wine and we embrace that with wine.  There's no reason that we cannot appreciate that with meat as well, right?  
**0:48:09-0:48:27:**  And if we ever get to a stage like that, I think we're, yeah, we're in a very good place.  And I think that is also, yeah, so important.  And I think that will also then it could help the overall supply chain industry as well,  
**0:48:27-0:48:37:**  right?  I mean, at the moment we can see that, and that of course makes sense.  If you're like a big supermarket, right?  
**0:48:37-0:48:51:**  If you can get grass-fed beef out of Australia or Uruguay for half the price, right?  Versus maybe a local farmer that has very biodiverse forages.  I mean, at the moment you cannot recoup that, right?  
**0:48:51-0:49:03:**  Because there's grass-fed beef versus grass-fed beef at the moment.  It's not, but that's how it's at least being labeled.  But if we get, we're willing to spend a little bit more for a very good wine, right?  
**0:49:03-0:49:21:**  Than a $3 a headache wine versus a nice, maybe $12 bottle.  And if that means that we can appreciate that and we certainly don't want meat to become  an elite product, but okay, we should also pay for the quality that we get.  
**0:49:21-0:49:35:**  And another point is that if you have more nutrient dense products, then yeah, potentially  you could also consume a little bit less of that.  So those are all, and again, it becomes a very nuanced discussion very quickly when  
**0:49:35-0:49:52:**  we talk about those things.  But I think those are important details that we need to start to explore over time and  improve amongst all systems in that regard.  
**0:49:52-0:50:04:**  So Jill also wanted me to ask if there was a way to scale the testing and how could that  be done so that more meat producers could be involved in this kind of study?  Yeah, the scaling of the testing, I mean, it's just innovation.  
**0:50:04-0:50:19:**  I mean, we're, this year we're quicker than we were last year and the year before, and  we were able to look at, do things quicker over time and do it at a lower cost as we  get more and more innovative.  
**0:50:19-0:50:43:**  So at the moment, it's very much a scientific experiment and a research project, but at  some point I think we can get to a point where, okay, we can have a good handle on what to  look for, what is a nutrient dense piece of meat and streamline it as more of a service  
**0:50:43-0:50:57:**  or something like that, right?  I always jokingly say that the iPhone 12 is better than the iPhone 1, right?  But the iPhone 1 had to start somewhere and now iPhones probably didn't get cheaper.  
**0:50:57-0:51:10:**  They only got more expensive, but in our case, hopefully we can bring the cost down because  we become more efficient and quicker at what we do.  And so that's one of the things I think that this could scale.  
**0:51:10-0:51:29:**  And then, you know, one of the things that's on our radar is I think we're at a point now  after we've done numerous samples is that without the farmer telling us, I think we  can see when the animals were on hay, on conserved forages, or if they were on fresh forages.  
**0:51:29-0:51:37:**  That's one thing we can clearly see.  Because of the fat, like the way the fat looks?  No, we can, the phytochemicals, the way the phytochemicals look.  
**0:51:37-0:51:44:**  Yeah, there's some delta signs.  So there's like a signature.  Yeah, the signature of the phytochemicals tells you, oh, this probably had a lot of  
**0:51:44-0:51:59:**  hay that are fat and especially alfalfa hay is obviously fat most often.  So alfalfa hay has a certain signature and meadow hay, and you can see that back in the  meat.  
**0:51:59-0:52:09:**  So we usually have a few compounds that are very high.  But the other phytochemicals are fairly low.  And there's a few compounds, four or five that you can say, okay, you know, these we  
**0:52:09-0:52:23:**  know occur in alfalfa hay and okay, is very high in the meat and some compounds that we  know are in corn, okay, we can see that in the meat.  So we could potentially get to a point where we can do authentication as well.  
**0:52:23-0:52:35:**  Yeah, that's really exciting, because then you're not dependent on the marketing claims  or even the description of practice, because that's so often the other thing, even if it's  an accurate marketing claim, like they were grass fed, okay, well, they were grass fed.  
**0:52:35-0:52:49:**  But how did that translate into the benefit I think I'm buying by buying grass fed.  And you know, that's, you know, that's why if you're able to test the residue and find  no residue of pesticide on a product, then you know that that's, that's the benefit you're  
**0:52:49-0:53:00:**  buying.  And so it's really exciting that you can authenticate this higher these higher health benefits and  even flavor, maybe the flavor profile that comes with them by because you can already  
**0:53:00-0:53:10:**  see the signature and that will probably get even clearer and easier over time.  Yeah, for sure.  That's that's certainly my our findings too.  
**0:53:10-0:53:20:**  Yeah.  As we learn more over time and do more and more of the samples, I almost already admit  that we learned so much from scaling this up and doing a larger number of farms is that  
**0:53:20-0:53:37:**  yeah, we can then see clearly, okay, you know, you start to learn, well, this signature forms,  like I said, the biodiversity, it displays this signature, what we usually see is that  we see a wider variety of phytochemicals, basically.  
**0:53:37-0:53:52:**  So there's more phytochemicals that are high.  And if they're if they're fed a very narrow amount of forages, then yeah, you may you  know, if one forage tends to be very high in this particular compound, then that particular  
**0:53:52-0:54:03:**  compound is high, but it dominates maybe 70-80% of the meat, but you don't get the broadness  of all the other phytochemicals.  And obviously, the total amount is also reduced.  
**0:54:03-0:54:16:**  So that's, and it's also so important for the animal as well.  And this is all the work that is done by one of my collaborators, Dr. Fred Provenza, that  also it benefits animal health.  
**0:54:16-0:54:32:**  If the animal is able to self select from different plants, it is able to keep itself  healthier, or when it develops some sort of parasite able to work this off.  So here again, we see that the animal health can be improved that way and the nutritional  
**0:54:32-0:54:42:**  composition.  So it has a benefit for animal welfare as well.  This has been well established is that the stress the cortisol, which is a major stress  
**0:54:42-0:54:54:**  hormone in us, but also in in in animals and grazing animals, is that if they have more  biodiverse forages, their cortisol is lower.  And if they're grazing a monoculture, their cortisol is higher because you cannot select  
**0:54:54-0:55:06:**  the same if we would give a human a nice buffet that they can select from, or you just get  a bowl of porridge, right?  Oh, that's so it's so interesting, too.  
**0:55:06-0:55:17:**  And I know from from other producers in our network that Jill's introduced me to that  they've shown us videos of the cattle, and they actually go around and they're sniffing  the ground.  
**0:55:17-0:55:33:**  And just like you said that they can self select, it's fascinating that sort of the  natural intelligence that the animal has because they're smelling something in the in the plant  that is more desirable to them at that point in their life than another plant.  
**0:55:33-0:55:45:**  And I mean, you and there's videos that they show that they'll show them like sniffing,  sniffing, moving around and then eat a lot and then sniffing, sniffing.  So they're like, there's a they're tuned in to the scent of some nutrient or something  
**0:55:45-0:55:54:**  that they that they need.  Yeah, yeah, that is certainly fascinating.  And it's hard to imagine that as humans, we don't have some of that nutritional wisdom.  
**0:55:54-0:56:05:**  But yeah, as we've worked hard to tamp it down, we have worked hard to tap it down.  Yes.  But if perhaps if our life is dependent on it, then we probably have it too, right?  
**0:56:05-0:56:20:**  Especially if you look at all accounts of of British sailors, for instance, right?  That developed scurvy, they started to develop this incredible desire for citrus fruits,  and no one knows why, no one knows why, but it's the body trying to survive, right?  
**0:56:20-0:56:33:**  And so if your survival depends on it, and a cow doing that day in, day out, and their  survival depends on it, and certainly they would seek out different forages.  But same like humans and cows, right?  
**0:56:33-0:56:41:**  If you provide them a lot of corn, that is a sort of candy to them as well, right?  So they will overeat that.  So we can we can kind of hijack that a little bit.  
**0:56:41-0:56:56:**  And we've done so very much so in ourselves, because with our high amounts of ultra processed  foods that we are eating, and that are certainly very addictive.  Potentially, I should say, yeah, they are addictive.  
**0:56:56-0:57:07:**  We haven't proven this beyond reasonable doubt.  But what you can see is that they're definitely not associating when when people eat a lot  of refined foods and ultra processed foods, they overeat.  
**0:57:07-0:57:20:**  And it's kind of similar with with with animals, if they have less diversity, less choice,  they will overeat to get those nutrients.  Well, that gets back to the point of looking at nutrient density.  
**0:57:20-0:57:28:**  And you mentioned this earlier, too, that if you have a nutrient dense food, you often  don't need as much.  And I had heard that before.  
**0:57:28-0:57:49:**  But I have switched to now like I only buy grass fed butter and often, sadly, to me,  it's it's from Ireland, because the stores that I'm at, like that's, that's the option.  And I have been surprised just in my own experience, that I need less butter.  
**0:57:49-0:57:59:**  It's well, it's both creamier, it's nice, you know, it has a better flavor to me, and  texture.  But I've noticed, I actually need less of it to be satisfied.  
**0:57:59-0:58:17:**  And that's just a tiny example of if you have a steak, and it has so much more actual nutrients  in it, your body is sensing that and you that's it's your body is getting what it needs more  in a smaller cut of meat, then then if it were, it didn't have the nutrients.  
**0:58:17-0:58:29:**  And so of course, you you need you need more because your body's isn't the isn't there  a link between like there's some hormone or some chemical that tells you when you're full,  and that part of that is related to the nutrients that it senses you're getting?  
**0:58:29-0:58:41:**  Yeah, there's certainly some rich literature on that.  Yeah, that suggests that some of these compounds act on society pathway, so that that certainly  could be a part of it.  
**0:58:41-0:58:53:**  Yeah, it's always notoriously hard to prove in humans.  But there are there are some indication that that may be the case.  And an example I always like to give is that if you have, for instance, if you ever picked  
**0:58:53-0:59:06:**  wild blueberries or something like that, they're about five times smaller than your blueberry  that you grow at the grocery store, but they're also contain five times more micronutrients  and phytochemicals per weight, I should say.  
**0:59:06-0:59:18:**  So it's kind of like you have a bigger blueberry that has the same absolute amount of phytochemicals  as that smaller blueberry.  So if you eat 10 of the smaller blueberries versus 10 of the big ones, you have ingested  
**0:59:18-0:59:30:**  less calories, but you got the same probably the same amount of micronutrients and phytochemicals,  right?  And then if we translate that sort of to meat, it can also be okay, if this piece of meat  
**0:59:30-0:59:43:**  is twice as rich in phytochemicals or has three times more niacin, for instance, a B  vitamin, then yeah, I mean, if you eat three times less, you still get the same amount  of micronutrients.  
**0:59:43-1:00:04:**  Certainly you get the lower amounts of macronutrients.  But I would say that at least most of us in the US and in Western civilization where we  don't have a lack of macronutrients and calories, but we certainly have also in Western society,  
**1:00:04-1:00:13:**  sometimes micronutrient insufficiencies for sure.  Yeah, well, that's just such an important, I think, way for us as consumers to start  to rethink.  
**1:00:13-1:00:21:**  Like when we look at the price of something, you know, it's easy to see like even the price  per ounce, they may have it broken down for you for that.  And that seems helpful.  
**1:00:21-1:00:38:**  Oh, I'm going to compare ounce to ounce, but if you're not taking into account that it's  not a nutrient dense food, often when you buy a nutrient dense food, it looks more expensive.  If you're going to compare it ounce for ounce, it looks like, well, that's way more expensive,  
**1:00:38-1:00:49:**  but we're not factoring in not only that it's better health, which some people get, you  know, okay, I'm going to spend more because it's healthier, but we're not factoring in  the amount part.  
**1:00:49-1:01:01:**  You know, the actual amount that you need is less and that seems to be at odds with,  well, if you're a food company, you want to sell more.  You know, that's your business is to sell more.  
**1:01:01-1:01:12:**  So they need to be able to make that shift of selling based on quality versus amount.  And I guess consumers have to maybe make that shift too.  Yeah, absolutely.  
**1:01:12-1:01:23:**  And we do so we appreciate that quality and other aspects, right?  Or in Jesus, for instance, we appreciate wine back to wine, too.  Yeah, wine and Jesus, we do appreciate that quality.  
**1:01:23-1:01:33:**  So I think that is very important.  And it's also it makes sense.  I mean, farmers at the moment are rewarded for yield for weight, but we're not paying  
**1:01:33-1:01:43:**  for nutrient density per se.  So and certainly, like I said, on the sort of the grassroots movements, people are willing  to do that, right?  
**1:01:43-1:01:55:**  If you often buy from local farmers, they are wanting to buy.  Typically they go there because they want certain quality, a certain taste.  Right.  
**1:01:55-1:02:11:**  But if you look at sort of, yeah, the broader supply chain, then yeah, that is not per se,  per se the case, at least not on the scale what is with wine or cheese, for instance.  Well, this has been a fascinating conversation.  
**1:02:11-1:02:27:**  I just, as we wrap up, I just want to know if, is there a way to kind of put you've mentioned  the difference, obviously, the beneficial difference between bio diverse pasture forage  raised meat and grain fed conventional or, or even grass fed?  
**1:02:27-1:02:34:**  But is there a way to quantify that for the consumer?  Like, what is like, what is the big difference?  How big is the difference?  
**1:02:34-1:02:44:**  So there's a difference, you found a difference, but as a just a take home kind of thing to  kind of keep it in mind as a consumer, like how big is the difference?  How do you measure that in your mind?  
**1:02:44-1:02:57:**  If we look at phyto chemicals, these plant compounds with antioxidant and anti inflammatory  effects, they're about three times higher on average, when grass fed beef compared to  grain fed beef, but amongst grass fed beef, the highest grass fed beef sample is 10 times  
**1:02:57-1:03:10:**  higher than the lowest grass fed beef sample.  So that is something to keep in mind, I think also for the consumer and then with the benefit  for biodiverse forages, those are the farmers that have the most nutrient dense meat, I  
**1:03:10-1:03:25:**  think that's an important takeaway for for people to realize and in connecting with farmers,  it's okay to ask questions to your farmer on on their practices.  I'm always when I'm at a farmer's market, I always want to know about their practices  
**1:03:25-1:03:37:**  and always get a get a friendly answer and people want to tell you about that.  So it's and it's also the good for for consumers to connect back to farmers.  I know we're all busy lives.  
**1:03:37-1:03:50:**  And I certainly get all of my food in grocery stores too.  And then I cannot ask the farmer, though sometimes you have a nice scan label on it, you can  trace it back to the farm that it came from, that could be something that maybe supermarkets  
**1:03:50-1:04:01:**  could do over time.  But yeah, it's it's reconnecting with with how foods are grown and and reconnecting back  with farmers, I think is a key part of this as well what we're doing.  
**1:04:01-1:04:12:**  Yeah, and not just for the nice to know, but actual health differences.  That's what that's what your study is really illuminating so well that there are actual  health differences.  
**1:04:12-1:04:21:**  But you only can find them if you if you know, if you know how the meat was grown.  Yeah, absolutely.  That is that is the main takeaway that we're seeing from our work right now.  
**1:04:21-1:04:24:**  Yeah.  Well, thank you so much.  Really appreciate your time.  
**1:04:24-1:04:34:**  This has been fascinating.  And if consumers want to follow your work, how would they maybe do that?  So I'm active on social media on Twitter mostly.  
**1:04:34-1:04:47:**  My Twitter handle is Van Fleet PhD.  So my last name followed by the letters PhD.  Other than that, if they Google me, Stefan Van Fleet and beef nutrient density project  
**1:04:47-1:05:01:**  or Stefan Van Fleet and Utah State University, then they'll be able to find my Google Scholar  profile as well, which has all of our studies on there.  And we always make sure that our papers are open access.  
**1:05:01-1:05:14:**  We have to pay a hefty fee to the publisher, unfortunately.  But that's a little not a story in in academia.  But yeah, we try to keep our papers always open access so that everyone can read it and  
**1:05:14-1:05:27:**  at least try to to an extent to keep it readable for Corley audience as well.  Because if only scientists understand it, then that is not ideal, especially when you're  working on consumer products.  
**1:05:27-1:05:33:**  So yes, yes.  Well, that that is great.  And I know if you do a search of your name on YouTube that you have a number of interviews  
**1:05:33-1:05:37:**  and presentations you've done.  So that'd be good.  Good for them as well.  
**1:05:37-1:05:46:**  Well, thanks again.  I really appreciate your time and all your good work.  Thank you so much, Sarah.  
**1:05:46-1:06:04:**  You've been listening to Tasting Terroir, a podcast made possible by a magical collaboration  between the following companies and supporters, all working together to help farmers, chefs,  food companies and consumers to build healthier soil for a healthier world.  
**1:06:04-1:06:17:**  Risotera owned by Dr. Jill Klopertin.  Risotera is an international food security consulting company providing expert guidance  for creating healthy soils that yield tasty, nutrient dense foods.  
**1:06:17-1:06:32:**  Check us out at risotera.com.  That's R H I Z O T E R R A dot com.  And the Global Food and Farm online community, an ad free global social network and soil  
**1:06:32-1:06:45:**  health streaming service that provides information and connections that help you apply the science  and practice of improving soil health.  Join us at globalfoodandfarm.com.  
**1:06:45-1:06:59:**  And from listeners like you who support us through our Patreon account at patreon.com  slash tasting terroir.  Patrons receive access to our full length interviews and selected additional materials.  
**1:06:59-1:07:09:**  Patrons will also have the opportunity to submit questions that we will answer on the  podcast.  Tune in next week to hear more interviews and insights with myself, Sarah Harper, and  
**1:07:09-1:07:28:**  Dr. Jill Klopertin, as well as the regenerative farmers, chefs, and emerging food companies  in the Global Food and Farm online community and beyond.  If you like our work, please give us a five star rating and share the podcast with your  
**1:07:28-1:07:38:**  friends.  Thanks so much for listening and for helping us get the word out about this new resource  to taste the health of your food.  
**1:07:38-1:08:17:**  Until next week, stay curious, keep improving, and don't stop believing that better is possible  when knowledge is available.  