---
title: 53 Practicalities Of Integrating Coppicing Into Your Farm With Mark Krawczyk
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### The Regenerative Agroforestry Podcast  (2022-12-27)  

**0:00:00-0:00:23:**  Can we change the way we produce food to both meet the needs of humans whilst regenerating  our soils and ecosystems?  And can we do so in a way that improves the financial viability of farms?  
**0:00:23-0:00:35:**  These questions are becoming increasingly urgent to answer and we're here to investigate  a promising technique called agroforestry.  In order to find out how it can help us with these challenges, we'll be interviewing farmers,  
**0:00:35-0:00:49:**  scientists, and other experts to share with you their experiences, practical advice, and  scientific research.  Hello and welcome to the Regenerative Agroforestry podcast.  
**0:00:49-0:01:01:**  I'm your host Dimitri and today we have the immense pleasure of welcoming Marc Kroczek  on the podcast.  Marc is a practitioner and expert in copicing, an author as well of the very recent and thorough  
**0:01:01-0:01:14:**  book called Copies Agroforestry, which I highly recommend you check out.  All of the information is going to be in the links below.  And in this conversation, we talked about how we can integrate copicing into a farm  
**0:01:14-0:01:26:**  context, thinking about some of the products that we can produce from it, how it integrates  agroforestry systems, how we can mechanize these systems, and in general, what are some  of the economic considerations of copicing.  
**0:01:26-0:01:37:**  So I really hope you enjoy this interview.  I also highly advise that you check out the interview that was carried out with our friend  from the Regenerative Skills podcast.  
**0:01:37-0:01:48:**  That would be Oliver that did a fantastic interview looking at the cultural and historical  context of copicing, which I think really complements the conversation that we had today.  And I will also link this below.  
**0:01:48-0:01:56:**  So I really hope that you enjoy the episode as much as I did.  Hello, Mark, and welcome on the podcast.  Really nice to have you on.  
**0:01:56-0:02:00:**  Thank you so much, Dimitri.  I'm really happy to be here.  Phenomenal.  
**0:02:00-0:02:19:**  So, yeah, maybe we can get started as we usually do on the show by you telling us how you got  involved with agroforestry, with copicing, how you got around writing this amazing book,  Copies Agroforestry, which we're going to be talking about as well on the show.  
**0:02:19-0:02:29:**  So you could give us a bit of an intro as to your story.  Absolutely.  And it's not a linear story and there may be a couple of little tangents, but I'll try  
**0:02:29-0:02:39:**  to make it concise.  This was not something that was part of my upbringing, just a connection to landscape,  a connection to land management.  
**0:02:39-0:02:55:**  Although probably just a few generations prior, it would have been just a day-to-day reality  for my ancestors.  I grew up in the suburbs outside Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and it wasn't really until I moved  
**0:02:55-0:03:15:**  off to go to university in Vermont where I became connected to environmental issues.  And I was very fortunate because the initial courses that I took were really focused around  just introductions to all of the problems that humans are creating.  
**0:03:15-0:03:32:**  And very soon after I was introduced to much more solutions-oriented thinking, initially  learning about the homesteading movement in the US in the 1940s and 50s, reading books  like The Good Life by Helen and Scott Nearing.  
**0:03:32-0:03:52:**  And so these ideas of just beginning to ask questions about where do the resources come  from that we rely on on the daily, how are my decisions and daily habits affecting people  and places around the world, whether or not I'm aware of it, started to send me in this  
**0:03:52-0:04:13:**  direction of reskilling and resilience.  And I spent a semester in India while I was in school at an ecovillage called Auroville.  And that was a fascinating study both in ecological, cultural, and spiritual design and solutions-based  
**0:04:13-0:04:28:**  community.  And that was where I first learned about permaculture, the idea of using design as a tool towards  manifesting that future both ecologically and socially that we're envisioning.  
**0:04:28-0:04:45:**  When I finished school, I left really with very few practical skills at all, and I wanted  to focus on that straight away and spent about four years pursuing work trades and internships  and apprenticeships with different practitioners in various realms, including agroforestry  
**0:04:45-0:04:57:**  and traditional woodworking, ecological or natural building.  And I was very fortunate.  This was back in 2001 that I picked up Ben Law's book, The Woodland Way.  
**0:04:57-0:05:18:**  And that book just completely inspired me, just the narrative he crafts about his relationship  with place, the way that his life just expressed the seasonality, and then also just the idea  of learning to work with my hands and celebrate wood as this essential resource for human  
**0:05:18-0:05:29:**  life.  And I reached out to him, and it so happened he took apprentices, and I spent maybe eight  or so months working out there in the coppice.  
**0:05:29-0:05:45:**  And that just was another part of my path that really kind of transformed my perspective.  I was very energized leaving England and coming back to the States.  What I found was that there were very few people that knew much about coppicing.  
**0:05:45-0:06:03:**  It wasn't part of the conversation.  I reached out to one of my forestry professors from university, and he kind of just put it  in this marginalized toolkit of more or less, unrelevant practices for temperate North  
**0:06:03-0:06:16:**  America today.  And so there were several years of just trying to figure out how to both expand on and share  some of the experiences that I gleaned over in England.  
**0:06:16-0:06:33:**  And for me, initially, that became something I manifested through a deep dive into traditional  craft.  I made chairs for five or six years using hand tools and traditional techniques.  
**0:06:33-0:06:54:**  And as I started to kind of explore how to expand my practice to a more holistic and  broader context, looking more towards education and ecological planning and design, that became  a way for me to start to amplify my interest in coppicing.  
**0:06:54-0:07:06:**  Around 2009, I met Dave Jackie, who some folks may know of as the lead author of the Edible  Forest Gardens books.  We both shared this interest in coppicing and also just recognized that there was just  
**0:07:06-0:07:26:**  a severe lack of good information for practitioners who wanted to apply it in North America.  Most of the literature in English is all based out of the United Kingdom.  And so we started to bounce around this idea of crafting a manual for modern, temperate  
**0:07:26-0:07:35:**  North American coppice audiences.  And so that was kind of the birth of this project, was essentially just recognizing  we both had this interest.  
**0:07:35-0:07:49:**  I had some experience on the craft and value-adding side as well as the woodland management side.  He has his own breadth of experience.  And this project took 10-plus years to reach fruition.  
**0:07:49-0:08:03:**  And I'm not going to get into all that unless we want to, but essentially Dave Jackie and  I started on this project together.  We did an immense amount of research and collation of research and built out a manuscript together.  
**0:08:03-0:08:16:**  He did a massive amount of data analysis on different coppicing species for the book's  audience.  And the process kind of ebbed and flowed over the years.  
**0:08:16-0:08:28:**  We had a lot of momentum for the first several years, and then we kind of lost steam for  a bit.  And finally, about two years ago, I resurrected the project and brought it to a point of completion.  
**0:08:28-0:08:41:**  And now it's out in the flesh and it's something that's real.  And we're really hoping that this reaches a wide audience and really gets people excited  about these practices and thinking outside the box.  
**0:08:41-0:08:51:**  And that's why I'm excited about this conversation.  So I haven't had the time to read the book because there's a lot of information in there.  And that's what got me excited.  
**0:08:51-0:09:02:**  I was like, wow, I mean, there's so much stuff in that book.  I've had the time to skim over the chapters and the main sections and et cetera.  And I got pretty excited.  
**0:09:02-0:09:23:**  I can see how there are 10 years of research and work into it.  But it was largely a result of just a massive literature review.  They've amassed about a thousand articles from academic journals and organized them  
**0:09:23-0:09:39:**  in a very sophisticated way so that as I was working through and writing chapters, I could  just do a search in a FileMaker Pro file and all of the articles that were relevant to  whatever the theme was, be it the biology or physiology.  
**0:09:39-0:09:54:**  And then I could go through and see which ones were relevant and then just try to pull  whatever pieces seemed like they would help round out this narrative and integrate them  into the manuscript.  
**0:09:54-0:10:14:**  It was an interesting process because that meant things kept kind of evolving and swelling  in some places and needing to shrink in others and things didn't necessarily always flow.  It took a lot of crafting to bring it back to a point of ideally smooth, relatively easy  
**0:10:14-0:10:30:**  to digest and as concise as possible.  It's a big book and like you said, there's a lot of information in it, but ideally it's  like we were able to distill this vast amount of information into something that's essentially  
**0:10:30-0:10:48:**  the most relevant pieces for people that want to apply this in their landscapes and lives.  I suspect that you didn't just use academic information and resources, but also a lot  of experiential information around the practice of copying, etc.  
**0:10:48-0:11:10:**  Whereabouts did you get that kind of information?  Well, a good amount of it came from my experiences in the UK and then also some of my travels.  Early on, Dave and I did a Kickstarter campaign back in 2010 and that was very affirming that  
**0:11:10-0:11:25:**  there was a lot of interest in this project.  We had about 300 people support the project and raised about $18,000 and we split that  so that we each had some seed money to do our work early on.  
**0:11:25-0:11:43:**  I used most of mine to travel both to the Midwestern United States and the Western United  States, especially the Pacific Northwest, but also California and then also throughout  continental Europe.  
**0:11:43-0:11:57:**  That was a really potent opportunity just to connect with different practitioners and  learn about how they're using these techniques and how they've evolved in the landscape over  time.  
**0:11:57-0:12:12:**  And then also along the way, we just kind of made whatever effort we could to connect  with people that would serve as valuable case studies, just talking more about how these  techniques are part of their livelihood.  
**0:12:12-0:12:20:**  Nice.  Amazing.  I can hear some of our listeners maybe saying, well, what the hell is copy-sing?  
**0:12:20-0:12:28:**  And rightly so.  One of the things that we were thinking about as we were planning this interview is to go  over some of the basics of copy-sing.  
**0:12:28-0:12:46:**  And I'll also add that I listened to your interview with Oliver from the Regenerative  Skills podcast, which I highly recommend, and you went a lot into the social, historical  context around copy-singing, so you had a fascinating hour and a half talk, which I  
**0:12:46-0:13:03:**  also advise our listeners to check out and to tune into.  So we're going to complement that episode today together, and we're going to have a  bit of a different approach to try and analyze a different aspect of it.  
**0:13:03-0:13:12:**  And yeah, so maybe we could go over some of the basic ideas of what is copy-sing?  How do you copy-sitterly?  How often do you do that?  
**0:13:12-0:13:21:**  What's the copy-sing cycle?  Some of the basics of it.  Absolutely.  
**0:13:21-0:13:38:**  So on the back of the book, kind of the most concise definition of copy-sing that we've  come up with is the idea of cut and come again forestry.  The idea that you can cut a tree or shrub to the ground, and in many cases, they will  
**0:13:38-0:13:47:**  re-sprout from that remaining stump.  And I'm just going to, there's some terminology that I think is good to be clear on early  on.  
**0:13:47-0:14:02:**  So trees, shrubs, and woody vines would all live within this container of woody plants.  And so technically, if I'm saying tree in most cases, what I really mean are trees and  shrubs, but it's kind of cumbersome to always say trees and shrubs or woody plants.  
**0:14:02-0:14:12:**  But what I'm talking about are woody plants.  So we're not talking about herbaceous perennials, grasses, forbs, things like that.  We're talking about trees, shrubs, and in some cases, woody vines, but less so.  
**0:14:12-0:14:32:**  So copy-sing would be the intentional act of harvesting wood product from a tree or  shrub and doing so in a way that encourages it to re-sprout from that stump afterwards.  And there's a bunch of little caveats that tie into this definition.  
**0:14:32-0:14:45:**  Most all broadleaf species, people may also know them as deciduous species, but not all  deciduous, not all broadleaf species, species that don't have needles will sprout when you  cut them.  
**0:14:45-0:14:57:**  There are probably some exceptions, but for the most part, most of those species will  sprout when you cut them.  Conifers, on the other hand, are not known generally to coppice in the true sense, although  
**0:14:57-0:15:10:**  it does appear there's a parallel technique that will allow you to manage conifers in  a similar way.  Typically, for safety's sake, you want to leave a couple of whorls or nodes of branches  
**0:15:10-0:15:22:**  at the base of a tree.  But more often than not, we're talking about species like maples and birches and beeches  and hickory and oaks and black locust and things like that when we think about coppicing,  
**0:15:22-0:15:33:**  willows and poplars, of course.  And so then we get into sort of the time frame of how does this happen or when does this  happen.  
**0:15:33-0:15:42:**  It's best generally to coppice during dormancy.  So that is after the leaves have fallen and before the buds swollen and started to open  up in the springtime.  
**0:15:42-0:15:52:**  And there's a few reasons for that.  They include that being kind of the least disruptive time to the plant's physiology  to cut.  
**0:15:52-0:16:07:**  It doesn't expose it to all of the fungi, bacteria and insects that may be in the atmosphere  during the...  I tend to think of dormancy in terms of winter, whereas like where you are in Portugal, you're  
**0:16:07-0:16:24:**  going to have more of dry slash wet season perhaps.  But it tends to be a safer time of year for plant health to coppice.  In cold climates, the ground is generally frozen and so it's a lot less damaging to  
**0:16:24-0:16:36:**  the forest soils, which is very advantageous.  It also compliments agrarian lifestyle really well.  And this kind of ties into some of our themes around this audience specifically is that  
**0:16:36-0:16:47:**  for people that are engaged in growing food, generally that's going to be during the warm  summer months.  And so doing this forestry work is a really nice compliment.  
**0:16:47-0:17:04:**  It keeps you active, warm and engaged during otherwise kind of quieter times of year.  And then the last reason why dormancy is generally important for harvest is that it gives the  new sprouts the whole season to grow and develop before you hit that next dormant stage.  
**0:17:04-0:17:17:**  So you have this kind of long window for regrowth to happen.  And in terms of how often you cut, it really depends on your products.  How big do you need those new sprouts to become?  
**0:17:17-0:17:31:**  And so they could be anywhere from annually for things like basketry materials.  Again, that's what happens with crops like willow.  But then it might be as much as 20 or even 30 or I've seen some rotations that extend  
**0:17:31-0:17:45:**  as long as 40 or 50 years.  And you're going to be getting more like, you know, 10 to 15 centimeter diameter poles  at that point or, you know, four to six inch, maybe even a little bit bigger.  
**0:17:45-0:17:56:**  It's also going to depend on your climate and context and all that.  But basically coppicing this is the intentional management of trees and shrubs for sprouts  by cutting them all the way to the ground.  
**0:17:56-0:18:05:**  It's the most intensive way you could prune a plant.  Interesting.  And so I expect that the way in which the species react to that really depends on the  
**0:18:05-0:18:17:**  species that has been coppiced.  For example, I'm just thinking of if you're trying to aim for poles and you coppice the  tree and the re-sprouts, the straightness of the re-sprout, which I've seen in chestnuts,  
**0:18:17-0:18:29:**  for example, are very straight.  I don't know if it's so much between the species and as much as the context where it happens.  I'm sure there can be between species, but one of the reasons why, you know, I get into  
**0:18:29-0:18:48:**  this more in the podcast you were just mentioning with Oliver, but one of the reasons why coppicing  is so commonplace historically is because you tend to get very straight growth because  all of those new sprouts are racing for the light and they're competing with one another.  
**0:18:48-0:19:00:**  And oftentimes, like a lot of traditional coppice systems would have very dense spacing,  anywhere from two to three meters, you know, six to 10 feet between.  A coppice stool is a stump that's being managed.  
**0:19:00-0:19:12:**  That's another little bit of terminology.  So stools tend to be very tight together in a traditional system, which really kind of  encourage all those shoots to grow up straight.  
**0:19:12-0:19:26:**  And so, yeah, you will get some variability, but for the most part, it tends to really  encourage straight, healthy, new growth.  The rate of growth can be quite variable depending on species.  
**0:19:26-0:19:40:**  And so a lot of the, you know, the species that tend to grow most quickly tend to be  those that are the least dense.  And so when we look at things like bioenergy plantations, that often includes things like  
**0:19:40-0:19:49:**  hybrid willows and poplars and sycamores.  And then as we get into Mediterranean and subtropical climates, the eucalyptus is a  very popular species.  
**0:19:49-0:20:06:**  And so, you know, we will see, you know, as contrasted with something like oak, you know,  you may have two to three meters of new growth in a season easily on some of the species  I just mentioned, whereas oak might be half that or a third of that.  
**0:20:06-0:20:17:**  But by and large, you do tend to get pretty high quality straight stems.  And often it's more the context where they're grown that might influence that.  Very interesting.  
**0:20:17-0:20:34:**  Yeah, that shows to my lack of experience in coppicing, which is why if I were to get  involved with this, I would definitely look into getting your book.  Just one caveat here is that as much as I feel like I know, I also realize that there's  
**0:20:34-0:20:45:**  a lot that I don't know.  And so all of these things can be taken with a certain grain of salt.  I mean, for the most part, I'm basing this on 20 years of my own experience, but there's  
**0:20:45-0:20:54:**  always exceptions to everything.  But I feel generally, I try to be very clear about where I feel generally confident about  things I can share.  
**0:20:54-0:21:07:**  And yeah, just the simple act of resprouting tends to result in pretty quality from a craft  point of view.  Because that's what's most important often is uniformity.  
**0:21:07-0:21:16:**  Nice.  I was curious, what is the difference between coppicing and other resprout silver cultural  practices?  
**0:21:16-0:21:28:**  I mean, for example, where I live now in Portugal, there is a lot of eucalyptuses and they'll  plant them in lines.  And you'll have a single stem for the first, I think it's eight or nine years for the first  
**0:21:28-0:21:34:**  cycle.  And then they will cut them.  And then you will have a bunch growing.  
**0:21:34-0:21:44:**  And I think then they'll just keep going there.  Would that be considered coppicing?  What are the nuances in the way that you go about resprouting?  
**0:21:44-0:22:00:**  So what we would tend to kind of, how we would organize the concept that you're describing  would be like the severity of the disturbance.  And in the book, there's a illustration that helps kind of clarify what we're talking about  
**0:22:00-0:22:07:**  here.  When we think of coppicing, it's like the most severe disturbance you could ever do  to a tree.  
**0:22:07-0:22:17:**  Coppicing is basically just one type of pruning, but you can't prune a plant any harder than  cutting it all the way to the ground.  And when I say all the way to the ground, generally we're talking about leaving maybe  
**0:22:17-0:22:36:**  just two to three inches of stump, five to seven and a half centimeters or so.  So you're just leaving a very short section of the stem to remain.  If we were to think about a less severe form of management or another related tool, we  
**0:22:36-0:22:42:**  get into polarding.  Or I always say polarding.  I think it's technically polarding.  
**0:22:42-0:22:57:**  And that can take several different forms.  You could be just cutting a tree off when it's fairly young, maybe at four to six feet  off the ground or even potentially lower depending.  
**0:22:57-0:23:07:**  And so it becomes almost like a lollipop.  There's a trunk and then one point.  Basically the coppice stool is now elevated up off the ground, just one point of new growth  
**0:23:07-0:23:17:**  that you would repeatedly cut back to.  So that becomes that point sort of frozen in time where the canopy of the tree is always  brought back to.  
**0:23:17-0:23:31:**  Often you see this much more commonly in Europe, both in managed landscapes, but also in urban  environments.  These pollard or pollarded trees that have a more complex canopy.  
**0:23:31-0:23:46:**  There's a number of branches that extend out from that central trunk.  And at the end of each of those is a knob that is being managed for new sprouts.  And so on cycles that could range anywhere from three to as much as maybe 10 or even  
**0:23:46-0:24:00:**  15 years depending, you're cutting back to that bowling or that knob.  And so you have a bunch of kind of almost like small coppice stools out in the periphery  of the tree.  
**0:24:00-0:24:15:**  And so generally, historically, the reason why you would do that for versed coppicing  would be that it would allow you to manage for wood production without having to worry  about browse from wildlife or livestock.  
**0:24:15-0:24:30:**  So in traditional agroforestry systems, you could have this two storied system with grazing  in the understory and then wood production in the canopy.  Usually with pollarded trees, you would be managing for tree hay.  
**0:24:30-0:24:46:**  And so either harvesting the leaves during the growing season and just kind of a cut  and carry system, bringing them to livestock or you would be drying them and then feeding  them out during winter months as you would grass or herbaceous hay or else often it was  
**0:24:46-0:24:58:**  fuel wood.  You'd be growing firewood on a cycle that might be 10 to 15 years.  And so a couple other techniques that are parallel to coppicing and pollarding would  
**0:24:58-0:25:13:**  be shredding, which is the idea of just basically removing all of the side branches from a tree.  And often lopping off the top of the tree.  So you would have this like kind of tall, slender, single stem tree.  
**0:25:13-0:25:33:**  It's pretty uncommon these days, much more common historically, very labor intensive  and kind of dangerous to be working along like a, you know, often tall stem with not  a huge return, but it was an opportunity to grow a single pole while also harvesting,  
**0:25:33-0:25:53:**  you know, often it would be kindling or potentially craft material or tree hay.  And then hedge laying, the idea of like managing living hedges by restoring them through sprouting  techniques is also kind of in this bucket or basket of, of re-sprout silviculture.  
**0:25:53-0:26:12:**  And that's the idea of with a living hedge over time as the lower branches die, the hedge,  if it needs to contain livestock becomes porous, the animals can move their way through.  And so to restore, rejuvenate the hedge, you cut about two thirds of the way through the  
**0:26:12-0:26:28:**  base of the stem and then lay that stem down diagonally.  And that both stimulates new sprouts from the stump and also along the stem itself.  And then it also allows you to tie all those pleachers, they're called the, those remaining  
**0:26:28-0:26:44:**  stems together and make this dense wall.  And so the idea is ultimately that we're just using disturbance to initiate sprouting for  certain end product goals.  
**0:26:44-0:26:55:**  And I know that's something we'll get into a little bit, so I won't say more about that  necessarily yet.  It just reminds me of how fascinating a tree is because they're, these, these, these, these  
**0:26:55-0:27:11:**  plants are so malleable, you can shape them in whatever way we want.  And you know, from hedged hay all the way to long poles on a pole, straighten the trunk  at the bottom into, it's, it's, this is really fascinating, fascinating, there's a lot of  
**0:27:11-0:27:23:**  flexibility there in the way we can do it.  And I guess that back in the days they were using this a lot more to their advantage than  we do nowadays with our more simplified and efficient systems, which we'll get into later  
**0:27:23-0:27:35:**  on.  But there's a question around the impact on the physiology of the tree in the sense, what  is, what does coppicing do to the longevity of the plants?  
**0:27:35-0:27:45:**  Does it increase illnesses?  Can we rely on a coppice block to remain with 100% of the stools after the first cycle,  for example, and the first cut?  
**0:27:45-0:27:59:**  How does it, you know, could you give us a bit of information on that level?  Yes, absolutely.  I find this to be one of the more fascinating elements of the discussion is that it appears  
**0:27:59-0:28:14:**  anecdotally that the act of coppicing actually dramatically extends the lifespan of trees  and shrubs.  And the way I've described it in the book, basically interpreting some fantastic research  
**0:28:14-0:28:33:**  that, you know, others have done over the years, is that it essentially resets the ratio  of canopy to wood volume.  And so if you imagine a seedling tree, the ratio, because each year, kind of at the foundation,  
**0:28:33-0:28:47:**  we have to have a little bit of an understanding of the way that trees and shrubs grow.  So trees and shrubs grow in two main ways.  They grow through primary growth and their buds, they grow outwards and upwards.  
**0:28:47-0:29:00:**  And so they're constantly expanding in almost a fractal pattern to occupy more and more  space.  And similarly, they grow in circumference or diameter.  
**0:29:00-0:29:15:**  In girth, they add a new layer of wood around the entirety of the organism.  And that's what we see when we look at a cross section of a tree is those growth rings.  And so that's the cambial expansion through, you know, the lateral meristem growth.  
**0:29:15-0:29:33:**  And as when a tree is very young, the amount of new wood that it needs to generate around  the entirety of the organism is quite small in relationship to the size of the canopy,  the amount of leaf area, because that's where all the energy is manufactured in the canopy  
**0:29:33-0:29:45:**  through photosynthesis.  So it's very favorable for new growth development.  As trees start to get a little bit older, there's a shift in that ratio that the increase  
**0:29:45-0:30:03:**  in the volume of the canopy begins to level out with the amount of wood that it needs  to generate in order to remain healthy and vibrant.  And as a tree begins to get quite old, that ratio changes dramatically.  
**0:30:03-0:30:20:**  The canopy is not expanding nearly at the same rate as it was when it was young, yet  the amount of new wood that needs to be made is quite high relative to earlier on.  When we coppice a tree, we reset that clock completely, because there is no longer a canopy  
**0:30:20-0:30:42:**  or there is no longer all of that above ground wood that needs to be encircled with new tissue.  And so it basically rejuvenates the plant by keeping it young.  It also allows for any wounds or damage or disease that's developed in the upper parts  
**0:30:42-0:30:54:**  of the plant to be removed.  And so it rejuvenates it in that sense as well.  And so it just appears anecdotally that in many cases, the act of coppicing and pollarding  
**0:30:54-0:31:13:**  will double or triple or more the lifespan of a plant.  And some actually think that if managed with a consistent rotation throughout the life  cycle, many woody plants may have an indefinite lifespan as long as they maintain that coppicing  
**0:31:13-0:31:31:**  rotation.  And I'll point to a friend and colleague of mine, Costa Busticaris.  He's a filmmaker from New York State, and he has a fantastic Patreon service that he's  
**0:31:31-0:31:44:**  made films of craftspeople from all over the world.  And he visited a linden tree in England that's 2200 years old, and it's been coppiced basically  in perpetuity for its lifespan.  
**0:31:44-0:31:59:**  And so it basically is helping just kind of rejuvenate and reset that relationship between  canopy volume and wood tissue.  And it's the act of keeping young.  
**0:31:59-0:32:11:**  And so, yeah, it's a pretty fascinating way of looking at this reciprocal relationship  between humans and trees and shrubs.  I mean, this is making me think about some of the oldest cultivated trees that we know  
**0:32:11-0:32:24:**  of, olive trees that are 2000, 3000, 4000 years old.  I think the oldest one that they know of in Crete.  And these trees are, they're not necessarily, well, we could say that they are pollarded  
**0:32:24-0:32:35:**  on a regular cycle because the way that they're pruned is, you know, the branches will grow,  they'll develop, and then they'll start to mature, and then they fall, and then new branches  come from the top, you cut off the one from the bottom.  
**0:32:35-0:32:55:**  But this constant management is what enables these trees to last so long.  And coming from a modern horticultural background, it kind of worries a bit worried about making  cuts on the trees because of pathogens and wounds that create openings for fungal infections  
**0:32:55-0:33:04:**  and etc.  Of course, it's coming from horticultural, I mean, from tree crops, which are highly  sensitive, but this is not a worry for copacin.  
**0:33:04-0:33:23:**  There is potential for that.  And that's where there's definitely more nuance to this conversation than I have a full grasp  of because some species are better suited at sprouting than others.  
**0:33:23-0:33:37:**  Species like birch tend to really lose their ability to sprout after they're about 30 or  so years old.  Whereas things like oak, chestnut to a degree, one big exception in this realm of conifers  
**0:33:37-0:33:49:**  not being sprouted is the coast redwood, the grand, you know, ancient redwood trees of  California.  And those will sprout when they're 2000 years old still.  
**0:33:49-0:34:15:**  But generally speaking, we see that the ability and vigor of sprouting tends to decline once  species get to be more than maybe 30, 40, 50 years old, again, with some exceptions.  And the question of kind of maintaining health and how do we make, you know, that's a big  
**0:34:15-0:34:27:**  theme of the second chapter, which is looking at the anatomy and physiology of woody plants,  trying to understand the way that they grow.  When we coppice a plant, it's a little bit tricky because we can't necessarily apply  
**0:34:27-0:34:44:**  good pruning technique to try to help encourage the plant to compartmentalize or wall off  tissue because you're cutting between nodes, you're cutting between buds.  Whereas if you're pruning a tree, you know, usually there's a point where the branch or  
**0:34:44-0:35:10:**  the twig or branch intersects the stem, the branch collar and the work of people like  Dr. Alex Shigo through deep analysis of the way trees grow has informed us that by trying  to make our cuts right along that branch collar, we can encourage the plant to compartmentalize,  
**0:35:10-0:35:23:**  to healthily compartmentalize that exposed tissue.  When we coppice, we can't exactly do that.  So the best practices that I'm aware of when it comes to how to coppice and encourage longevity  
**0:35:23-0:35:35:**  is to make as clean a cut as possible.  And so this is where I know later on, we'll talk a little bit about like mechanization,  but when we look at scaling some of these practices up, you know, this is all about  
**0:35:35-0:35:49:**  the long-term health of the stool itself.  And so bringing in tools like feller bunchers and or skitters or heavy machinery and driving  through these woodlands can be quite damaging to the stool itself.  
**0:35:49-0:36:00:**  And so that can be a little bit challenging but we want to make good clean cuts as much  as possible.  We don't want to, you know, cause any damage to the bark as much as we can or create any  
**0:36:00-0:36:16:**  splits in the base of the stem that are going to just invite water and fungal infection.  If possible, make cuts that slope outwards and away from the center of the stool because  after repeated coppice cuts, you're going to have, you know, what initially was just  
**0:36:16-0:36:26:**  one stump, you're going to have several stumps after the next rotation and that continues  to grow.  So really trying to kind of open up that center of the plant and direct water away are two  
**0:36:26-0:36:41:**  of the main practices along with just trying to make cuts low because that tends to encourage  the new sprouts to form adventitious roots that may anchor the plant better and just  make it a little bit more resilient as well.  
**0:36:41-0:37:00:**  And so those are some of the practices that dive into that.  Pollarding is a little more complex because we are still managing this, you know, entire  plant canopy and getting to know which species pollard best under what techniques.  
**0:37:00-0:37:18:**  Like for example, how many branches can a certain species healthily maintain?  Species like sycamore or the plane tree, platinus is the Latin genus, they are very strong and  resilient and they can sustain a number of branches that extend out from the trunk and  
**0:37:18-0:37:32:**  keep those in a healthy state.  Mulberry is another one that's very robust and resilient, whereas other species may only  be able to sustain a couple of bolings or stems and that is something that probably,  
**0:37:32-0:37:46:**  I bet the literature is out there, but it's not available in English language at this  point and that's certainly like there's cultural knowledge around that and so that's something  that we're still trying to discern like what are the best practices for individual species  
**0:37:46-0:38:00:**  when it comes to pollarding specifically.  The technique of how to prune it, I think it's inevitable for us to enter this conversation  now because clearly reaching that detail or that precision in terms of, you know, having  
**0:38:00-0:38:15:**  a certain cut in a certain direction at a certain point on the branch to not go too  deep and not to damage the stool, this is very tricky for mechanisation.  It seems like it would be, it seems like the type of, at least maybe in the first cycle  
**0:38:15-0:38:28:**  not but then from the third, fourth cycle, the cycles grow, intuitively like this it  seems like it can start to compromise the health of the stool.  So I'm curious a bit about the experience that we have on mechanisation of coppicing  
**0:38:28-0:38:43:**  and what options do we have because again, you know, as we're talking about scaling up  these systems which you've mentioned, nowadays everything is going towards mechanisation  in a way because labour costs are extremely high and all these different issues that we're  
**0:38:43-0:38:56:**  facing in the agricultural sector and so inevitably people will be thinking about okay this clearly  has a high potential, we produce my own biomass for a variety of uses which we will get into  but how do I make this efficient?  
**0:38:56-0:39:09:**  And I'm talking here about maybe people that are working on a medium scale to large scale  farm and that maybe have for example 100 animals that they want to produce their own biomass  for, for litter etc.  
**0:39:09-0:39:26:**  You know, what options do we have for them?  Yeah, well I think in part it's helpful to sort of know the rules so that you know what  rules you're breaking when you do things and so yeah when it comes to, you know, there's  
**0:39:26-0:39:41:**  trade-offs with every strategy.  With mechanisation we lose the attention to detail and the care that you can apply when  you're doing it at a small scale but you dramatically increase the amount of work that can be done  
**0:39:41-0:40:00:**  and so to begin with it's probably finding the level of tolerance of specific species  for that more, you know, abrasive or harsh treatment.  Where we tend to see mechanisation, where I've tended to see mechanisation applied with  
**0:40:00-0:40:20:**  these practices has often been in either the biomass for energy sector and in those cases  because of kind of this, this you know sort of supercharged nature of the practice often  the things we were talking about, about longevity really don't hold true.  
**0:40:20-0:40:37:**  In the case of many of the hybrid willow plantations they tend to be exhausted after about 20 or  30 years and so you're a lot less concerned about the longevity of the stool in that case  because as long as it gives you, you know, four to six rotations that's really all that  
**0:40:37-0:40:49:**  you were anticipating based on the production models at the outset.  I've also seen this to a degree.  I haven't done a ton of research on tropical systems, subtropical systems but the idea  
**0:40:49-0:41:04:**  of fodder blocks, you know, planting out woody crops in, you know, dense plantations managed,  you know, often on very short rotations even harvesting a couple times a season that either  animals would just be, because this also gets into, you know, animals would be another,  
**0:41:04-0:41:19:**  it's not mechanized but it's a much more efficient way of harvesting if you're trying to feed  animals, you know, tree leaves is to give the animals access to the plant but they're  not going to follow all of the rules we were talking about in terms of best practice and  
**0:41:19-0:41:35:**  so there's this trade-off of efficiency for plant health and so there may be some losses  that happen as a result of that and that's just, it has to be built into the equation  but I've seen, I don't know the name of the equipment but it kind of looks like a very  
**0:41:35-0:41:55:**  heavy duty sickle bar mower, like a walk behind mower and this was in, I believe in India,  I was watching some film of this and they were able to just basically mow their way  through, you know, a one acre block of mulberry that was two meters tall and in full leaf  
**0:41:55-0:42:12:**  and they were basically creating these windrows of fodder that they could collect and feed.  I've also seen it with the silk industry, similar practice, the silkworm industry and  so obviously those cuts aren't necessarily going to be perfect and they're probably going  
**0:42:12-0:42:31:**  to pay for that just with a shorter production, productive life cycle before they need to  replant and this all comes back to the product and it's really about value adding and it's  like when you're doing things at a cottage industry scale, I mean, I know people that  
**0:42:31-0:42:51:**  make healthy living through making baskets and they're able to go and harvest, you know,  individually with a set of hand pruners and that's economical for them whereas once we  start to look at more commodity crop, yeah, we're going to need to rely on equipment and  
**0:42:51-0:43:07:**  it's not going to end up with sort of these optimal treatment methods for the plant health  but it just may mean there's a shorter productive life before we need to start again.  Yeah, that's very interesting and one of the things that comes to mind is also the inevitable  
**0:43:07-0:43:25:**  loss in terms of biodiversity because we know that some of these very old stools, especially  pollards that have a hollow center can be a huge opportunity for biodiversity but again  we can't expect all the agricultural systems to be optimum in terms of biodiversity and  
**0:43:25-0:43:35:**  etc.  It will be anyways or in any case there will be some compromises that need to be made.  So it's interesting to understand that, you know, one aspect is more labor and the other  
**0:43:35-0:43:54:**  aspect, there's a trade-off between more labor and precise work and then the other side is  less, a system that will last less time and that will need to be replaced sooner.  I'm happy you mentioned this because I wanted to mention that example of the biomass crops  
**0:43:54-0:44:11:**  and so I guess that they just come in with some disks and claws and they just grab a  bunch and as they do in forestry and the disk just cuts underneath.  What I've seen more often has been what, I don't know actually what the name is for the  
**0:44:11-0:44:34:**  equipment but it looks like a combine harvester and I think in some cases they are just modified  combine harvesters so they, you know, it's a big piece of equipment that has, you know,  it looks like a large sickle bar type cutting end and it just drives along and harvests  
**0:44:34-0:44:54:**  and chips in one pass and is often just blowing, delivering that material into a trailer pulled  by a tractor that's driving along parallel and so in a lot of cases, there's been a lot  of great research in parts of Scandinavia going into this and other parts of Northern  
**0:44:54-0:45:11:**  Europe where, you know, the need for heating energy is quite high and then the State University  of New York and Syracuse Environmental School of Forestry in the United States has done  a lot of research into biomass willows specifically.  
**0:45:11-0:45:29:**  Okay, I've seen a hybrid model done by a French people, I can't remember the organization  Agouf, they were talking a lot about it and what they do is that they've got a hedge,  a diversified hedge with species like oaks, maples, elms, etc.  
**0:45:29-0:45:49:**  They reach about 10-15 years and then they come with a claw, they grab the stems relatively  high up, it's 2 meters height and then somebody with a chainsaw comes and cleans and does  the coppers with a chainsaw and then this tractor with a claw, a basic claw, nothing  
**0:45:49-0:46:02:**  too fancy in terms of equipment, but then lay them out on the floor neatly and then  a chip would come and then they would chip this wood, in this case it was to sell biomass  for wood chips and then they would chip it and they would be able to sell the biomass  
**0:46:02-0:46:18:**  and they would rejuvenate the hedge and it would be a way of kind of an intermediate  between mechanization but also more precise work with the chainsaw, although maybe I'd  like to know your opinion on how do you manage it manually, do you use chainsaws or does  
**0:46:18-0:46:28:**  it have to be with hand saws etc.  And then it also gives many options because in that case they could chop it up for firewood  or they could use it for biomass but it was quite an interesting and at the same time  
**0:46:28-0:46:41:**  this is a hedge that was producing oil diversity and microclimate benefits to the farm so it  was, I found that system quite neat, although maybe not an enterprise that would really  pay strongly for itself but definitely it would pay for the work of cleaning up the  
**0:46:41-0:46:52:**  hedge and getting things going again and I'd love to know your input, have your input on  this.  Yeah, no that sounds very clever.  
**0:46:52-0:47:12:**  We, especially where I live in the eastern part of the United States, we are blessed  with this abundance of mature forest in many cases that need management.  There's a lot of wood resources that are already available to us so here in many cases, like  
**0:47:12-0:47:31:**  something that you're describing, there's really just often very little interest in  it because the volume of wood that you get when you're cutting these small stems is so  much less than harvesting big trees that most of the interest is focused around more mechanized  
**0:47:31-0:47:43:**  forestry of what I know in Europe they call high forest and we just think of this as forest  here.  But that sounds like a really clever approach because you're totally right that it's the  
**0:47:43-0:48:03:**  handling of the material in many cases that is way more effort than the actual, like the  felling, the cutting and so to be able to basically have this mechanical arm that's  just consolidating and moving and just accelerating that flow makes a lot of sense.  
**0:48:03-0:48:18:**  I am not a purist when it comes to equipment and tools.  If we were looking at the health of the plant, the best tool probably to use would be the  bill hook or some other type of blade edge tool because creating a bill hook for folks  
**0:48:18-0:48:33:**  that aren't aware is kind of like the temperate machete and it was really the predecessor  to the pruners, the hand pruners.  It's basically a blade that comes in many different profiles and they may range from  
**0:48:33-0:48:57:**  probably 15 to 25 centimeters in length and a wooden handle and it's a wonderful tool  to use but it takes a lot of skill to use it well and what it does when it's used well  is it creates a very clean, smooth, almost glassy surface if it's sharp and so when we  
**0:48:57-0:49:14:**  talk about plant health that means there's just a lot less spaces for water to collect  and fungus to grow and just opportunities for bark tearing and things of that sort.  But unless you are a very skilled practitioner and not managing a big area, it's not going  
**0:49:14-0:49:35:**  to be very practical and so you move to maybe a pruning saw like a hand saw and that will  probably be your next best option, clean cut, a little bit rougher but also again quite  slow and then a chainsaw just much faster and more efficient but it does tend to tear  
**0:49:35-0:49:54:**  a little bit more and so we're still talking about trade-offs to the point that we get  to probably the worst tool to use if you wanted to at the larger scale end would be a flail  mower where basically you're just shattering the stems because that's going to often carry  
**0:49:54-0:50:08:**  down into the stool and create these fractures of the wood.  But in many cases I've seen it used, I mean they use it along roadsides here all the time  and just leave the chips on the ground.  
**0:50:08-0:50:23:**  Things still sprout and no one's really concerned with the sprouting that comes back here.  They're not doing it intentionally so it's often a matter of what you can get away with  too and in that case the flail mower often works and so I think it also depends on how  
**0:50:23-0:50:36:**  valuable is the stool and what are the materials it's providing and if it's simply biomass  I'd be a lot less concerned with taking the degree of care that I was talking about a  minute ago with the finish of cut etc.  
**0:50:36-0:50:52:**  And it talks to the diversity of uses that these systems can have.  As we mentioned before one of them is just pure biomass, another one is a hedge, a multifunctional  biodiverse hedge that also serves as a biomass producer at wrong cycles.  
**0:50:52-0:51:05:**  Another one is forage and maybe let's keep brainstorming here.  What are in your opinion some of the most exciting modern uses of coppicing, of tree  coppices for farmers?  
**0:51:05-0:51:19:**  Some of the ones that maybe are most common or most that solve the most problems for farmers  because this is always what we're wondering, it's like how can trees solve problems for  farmers and therefore how can they be used by farmers and we can improve the landscape,  
**0:51:19-0:51:27:**  improve ecologies etc.  But we really try to focus on this aspect which is what are the problems that farmers  are facing and how can we solve them intelligently.  
**0:51:27-0:51:42:**  And so let's brainstorm a bit more here, tell us a bit about your experience on the types  of products and be it on farm or used by the farmer him or herself or as a commercial product  as well.  
**0:51:42-0:51:55:**  We should delve into both.  So there's a chapter in the book on the economy of coppice and the products and I think in  a lot of ways the question of why which is what we're answering when we talk about the  
**0:51:55-0:52:09:**  product side of things is at least as important as the what and the how because these practices  have to be relevant to people for us to want to invest in them.  And so I think this is really the core question here.  
**0:52:09-0:52:28:**  As we start, so personally my interests originated around the idea of these like small scale  localized high value crafts, people creating livelihoods around skilled value adding of  raw materials.  
**0:52:28-0:52:42:**  And then at the other end of the continuum is the biomass production that we talked about  and there's all this potential in between.  And it's not to say one's better than the other but the idea that a very small plot  
**0:52:42-0:53:00:**  has potentially but with a lot of skill value adding marketing and access to the right client  base may have the same earning potential as dozens of acres that are managed at more industrial  scale.  
**0:53:00-0:53:19:**  And so this really does come down as everything to the specific goals, skills, context and  the surrounding financial realities of the farmer and the farm.  And so I like to organize these products along this continuum of added value of a way of  
**0:53:19-0:53:30:**  thinking about where different products fit.  And this is a concept that's not unique to coppicing.  It's really just good natural resource management is always using materials to their highest  
**0:53:30-0:53:44:**  potential.  And so one of the bits of lowest hanging fruit that I see for farmers because if you don't  have the interest, the skills or the access to markets that some of these higher value  
**0:53:44-0:54:01:**  products might, you know, you're not interested in making rustic furniture, let's say, or  making baskets or doing living willow installations or things where you're, you know, actually  adding this craft enterprise to the farm, which we will talk about briefly as well.  
**0:54:01-0:54:15:**  I think conservation benefits on farms, shelter belts, windbreaks, riparian buffers, all are  really, really valuable additions to the farm.  And coppicing just becomes this tool that allows you both to harvest biomass, and we'd  
**0:54:15-0:54:28:**  be doing this in most cases at the type of scale that you're describing where there's  some degree of mechanization.  We're probably not caring so much about this like detailed approach to stool health.  
**0:54:28-0:54:43:**  But it allows us to both rejuvenate that planting, let's say it's a shelter belt between fields,  and it's just helping protect against, you know, strong winds.  One thing that's really nice is that it allows us to control the stature of the plants.  
**0:54:43-0:54:59:**  And so, you know, if we're concerned about the shading effects, it allows us to just  reset that whole patch altogether and start from scratch.  And in many cases with some of these faster growing species, we'll have, you know, like  
**0:54:59-0:55:09:**  I said, two to three meters of new growth, perhaps in one season, at least one and a  half to two meters.  So you will see things rejuvenate very quickly.  
**0:55:09-0:55:26:**  So I would say just again, from improving the quality of the landscape, both ecologically  speaking, but then also looking at some of these, you know, sheltering, also for livestock,  just having shelter from wind, especially in the winter months, or the idea of like  
**0:55:26-0:55:41:**  living barns during the winter, and shade, those become really valuable.  And then you're not even having to be so concerned with how long does this stool, you know, is  it going to last and how much care do I have to put into rejuvenating it.  
**0:55:41-0:55:55:**  And also because I don't know as much about some of the federal programs in Europe, but  in the United States, we have a lot more literacy that already exists around some of these conservation  enhancement practices.  
**0:55:55-0:56:08:**  And so when we talk about agroforestry, and we're, you know, we're speaking with the US  Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Office, they see these values in revegetating  waterways and creating shelter belts and things.  
**0:56:08-0:56:21:**  And so then it suddenly becomes this opportunity to think about what are some of the other  products that can be built into that planting.  You know, it starts off just as this conservation effort, but also has opportunities to be like,  
**0:56:21-0:56:34:**  okay, well, here's some really nice oak sprouts that are coming up, and we're going to maybe  allow those to grow a little bit longer, and they may be part of another enterprise.  So that's one thing that I think just makes a lot of sense as a way to keep the stature  
**0:56:34-0:56:51:**  low on conservation plantings.  A niche that I think has a lot of potential is in the nursery realm, propagation stock.  And this does get into a little bit more, you know, value adding and a bit more care.  
**0:56:51-0:57:05:**  But many of these species, especially the fast growing ones, can be readily propagated  from hardwood cuttings.  And so that becomes both a way of just, you know, adding more woody elements to the existing  
**0:57:05-0:57:22:**  farm landscape, but also adding an additional enterprise to a farm business.  And so this could be at a relatively small scale, perhaps, if you were growing grafted  fruit trees, that you could be, you know, managing both for scion wood production and  
**0:57:22-0:57:32:**  root stock using these techniques.  And Martin Crawford of the Agroforestry Research Trust in Devon is doing something like this  as part of his farm business.  
**0:57:32-0:57:47:**  But there's been a general shortage of planting stock here in much of the United States these  days because of a lot of the tree planting incentives and interest that's been growing  over the last five to 10 years.  
**0:57:47-0:58:02:**  So I think that's another great opportunity is some of these nursery type businesses.  We've talked a bit already about just biomass generally.  I know there's a lot of interest in the use of rameal wood.  
**0:58:02-0:58:17:**  This also gets into some of the physiological questions that we were talking about earlier.  But rameal wood is a term used to describe stems that are less than about, I believe  it's, I think it's two and a half inches in diameter, something like six, seven centimeters.  
**0:58:17-0:58:39:**  And that's smaller diameter materials have a higher ratio of carbon nitrogen or of nitrogen.  So they're better suited for kind of supercharging soil formation processes, chipping that young  wood tissue, because you don't have, you have a lot more bark and cambium relative to a  
**0:58:39-0:58:52:**  larger diameter stem.  It's much better suited to composting practices.  And that either tilled in or used as mulch surface mulch can be a way of rapidly adding  
**0:58:52-0:59:07:**  soil organic matter.  And so on like more market garden scale, growing this young wood that's maybe coppiced only  every two, three, four years, chipping it and then using it as biomass as a feedstock  
**0:59:07-0:59:28:**  for soil improvement would be one not to mention some of the just mulch and or as a commodity,  just chipped wood is about the lowest value per unit volume that there is around here.  We're looking at maybe 20 to $30 a ton.  
**0:59:28-0:59:42:**  And so you really need a large volume or you need to be adding resilience to the farm itself  for that to make sense.  But fuel wood, both on farm and also as a crop is potentially one other option.  
**0:59:42-0:59:54:**  Nowadays, what we're seeing here in our region, it's prices of everything going up through  the roof, prices of pellets going through the roof, for pelleted stoves, we're seeing  price of biomass also going through the roof.  
**0:59:54-1:00:08:**  I mean, not that usually biomass around here in these low biomass producing regions is  people that will be renovating orchards and they will be selling the biomass of maybe  a 50 hectare block, which makes sense because then it starts to chip into the costs.  
**1:00:08-1:00:18:**  Doesn't make sense for the soil and et cetera, but it doesn't make sense economically to  cut back on the cost.  Otherwise, I mean, even just a firewood, self producing energy on our own, I mean, a household  
**1:00:18-1:00:29:**  will easily spend a thousand euros on firewood.  If I had a one acre coppice block, I would be already with my chainsaw preparing myself  for next year.  
**1:00:29-1:00:38:**  I mean, without a doubt.  And this is something that's especially, yeah, I mean, it's an important consideration.  And I'm talking about this actually.  
**1:00:38-1:00:49:**  I have, we've interviewed a person on the show called Federico San Bonifacio.  He's in Italy.  He's got a multi-cyclic forestry system, or sorry, a poly-cyclic forestry system.  
**1:00:49-1:01:08:**  It was developed by Italian people for the Northern Plains, very fast growing areas with,  and so basically they've got hybrid poplars with oaks and in between they've got plantains  managed in coppicing systems that they sell, they cut on, I think it's a four or five year  
**1:01:08-1:01:24:**  cycle and they sell for biomass and they're managing to cash flow quite a bit in their,  I mean, he showed me some of the numbers and it's pretty interesting.  It brings in some good cash as the system develops and again, it's a stratified system.  
**1:01:24-1:01:39:**  The coppicing keeps it quite small whilst the poplars are growing tall and they also  push the trees up and straight as well whilst easy to harvest and to transform and then  they just make pallets of it and they sell it to the local community directly.  
**1:01:39-1:01:56:**  And so it's quite, it can be an interesting, well that's just an example to compliment  a bit the firewood option, but in this case of course it's very fast growing plantain,  not the longest burning wood, but it's wood, it burns.  
**1:01:56-1:02:10:**  That's great.  That's a great point though that you bring up is that we are seeing that shift in energy  value and these energy shortages really starting to bring the conversation back round to this.  
**1:02:10-1:02:29:**  When Dave and I first embarked on this book project, that was one of the big cruxes of  this conversation is that by and large today in the industrialized world, energy costs  are cheap and labor costs are quite high and it all depends on where we see this future  
**1:02:29-1:02:46:**  moving, but if we imagine energy becoming more and more expensive, which this initially  was the discussions when this book project first started were really revolving around  peak oil and a lot of the economic instability following the great recession.  
**1:02:46-1:03:04:**  We don't really talk about peak oil much anymore, but clearly we're seeing these supply chain  disruptions and just inconsistency in energy availability starting to make all of these  practices again fit this relevant context.  
**1:03:04-1:03:20:**  In many ways it's just paralleling all the same historical patterns that we saw in Europe  that were leading to the deforestation of landscapes and the need to conquest new lands  in order to find new energy resources.  
**1:03:20-1:03:33:**  Bringing trying to recenter that energy production locally does seem like it's making a lot more  sense.  Yeah, for sure, and again, this is why I found this French example that I mentioned earlier  
**1:03:33-1:03:48:**  on so elegant because as we think of multifunctionality in our landscapes, systems of trees that provide  shelter and shade for animals that we know have huge benefits for animal welfare, but  also for animal productivity.  
**1:03:48-1:04:06:**  Similarly, we can look at crops and windbreaks and biodiversity and all of this, it starts  to be an interesting way to make these systems somewhat productive depending on the opportunities  that are locally.  
**1:04:06-1:04:14:**  This is what's also quite interesting about what you mentioned earlier on with these high  value systems.  If you do have, for example, the opportunity to be able to produce some scion wood for  
**1:04:14-1:04:31:**  grafts or in another case firewood, less value of course, but another strategy, basket material,  weaving material, if there's a local group that does this and needs this, this is all,  it really does depend on the local context and it's hard to be able to generalize too  
**1:04:31-1:04:47:**  much about what are the opportunities available.  It's something to analyze in each and everyone's context.  Yeah, and I think also it's really driven by the motivations, passions, skills of the  
**1:04:47-1:04:55:**  farmer.  It's like, are there things that you want to do because it's just like any other product  development ultimately.  
**1:04:55-1:05:13:**  If sometimes the market doesn't exist yet and you need to educate them about the value  of whatever it is that you make.  Moving into a few other more kind of high value uses, we have a small, well it's modest,  
**1:05:13-1:05:28:**  it makes us about $8,000 a year, which for our small farm is fairly significant.  Shiitake mushrooms, log grown shiitake mushrooms.  We aren't necessarily using coppice wood, but that's one of those that I think could  
**1:05:28-1:05:44:**  parallel with some of these conservation uses we were talking about is that the nicer stems  might be set aside and used for something like that.  One of the challenges with shiitake is that it tends to really want the denser hardwoods  
**1:05:44-1:06:00:**  and there's nothing necessarily wrong with that, but they tend to grow more slowly.  Certainly I've been interested in oyster production because it really likes the soft hardwood  species like cottonwoods or the populous genus generally.  
**1:06:00-1:06:19:**  We have some soft maples that grow here like the silver maple and the box elder, which  are generally considered to be very low grade trees, but these species that tend to grow  very fast, you're often sacrificing density for speed of growth, but oyster mushroom substrate  
**1:06:19-1:06:35:**  often is really optimal in these fast grown low density hardwoods.  That's another opportunity there that a bit more labor intensive, but can also tie into  the existing market connections that a farm business may have.  
**1:06:35-1:06:47:**  Again, in terms of seasonality can compliment all of the harvest has to happen during the  growing season.  The harvest of the mushrooms, the inoculation and the harvest of the substrate can happen  
**1:06:47-1:07:03:**  during the slower dormant season.  And then a couple others that just come to mind would be, I think this starts to tie  into your specific locale, like the more rural you are, unless you have access to wholesale  
**1:07:03-1:07:17:**  marketing opportunities.  What in the United States we call the woody cuts industry, which is basically harvesting  tree and shrubs shoots for floral arrangements.  
**1:07:17-1:07:33:**  And these are things like the curly or corkscrew willow, the colorful dogwoods, cornice is  the genus for dogwoods, stems, things like hydrangeas or quince or cherry that produce  these beautiful flowering shoots.  
**1:07:33-1:07:46:**  Then those could be several dollars or more per shoot if you have access to that market.  And so that's just another one of those opportunities.  Could be at a much smaller scale.  
**1:07:46-1:08:05:**  This could be a dedicated planting that you're just using these techniques, but it also,  again, is something that's often done in the winter months and just another niche.  And so really the whole idea here is just using creativity, good business planning,  
**1:08:05-1:08:19:**  good research, but then also gaining more clarity in what the goals and vision is of  each individual farm and the resources on that landscape to find opportunities with  these techniques.  
**1:08:19-1:08:34:**  Another thing that's important to mention is that the infrastructure needs are relatively  low.  I mean, a chainsaw or a handsaw and a trailer, and you're off to harvest your biomass, your  
**1:08:34-1:08:46:**  firewood or whatever.  And then another example, with your chainsaw, you lay down your copper hedge on the floor  and then you come in with a rented chipper, cost you about four or five hundred euros  
**1:08:46-1:09:00:**  a day, and you chip the whole hundred, two hundred meters that you've just laid down.  So it's relatively low infrastructure.  We're not talking about buying technical machinery to seed this, to do that.  
**1:09:00-1:09:10:**  Especially at the planting level, depending on your context, you may have to do it yourself  or you can hire and contract the work out to prepare the soil, etc.  But these are low infrastructure systems.  
**1:09:10-1:09:24:**  And tell me if you don't agree, but this also opens opportunities, a lot of opportunities.  Absolutely.  I think it can take very little to make this work on landscapes.  
**1:09:24-1:09:38:**  And what you're reminding me of is that to a degree, it feels like we've been talking  about systems established by planting.  So establishing new woody elements in existing farm landscapes.  
**1:09:38-1:09:56:**  I think one of the other reasons why coppicing could be really relevant, both from a planting  perspective would be like looking at more marginal land on a farm and either allowing  succession just to occur and allowing whatever comes up to occupy that space and just letting  
**1:09:56-1:10:10:**  it become more of a naturalized zone that's managed on a longer rotation.  Or perhaps planting that out with species.  But often we have those scrubbier, lower fertility zones or wetter parts of the landscape that  
**1:10:10-1:10:23:**  aren't as well suited for other types of crops.  I think this could be a good practice.  And then secondarily looking at these existing scrublands or early successional forest as  
**1:10:23-1:10:33:**  being very low hanging fruit for these kinds of practices where you're not actually doing  any planting at all.  You're just tending a wild established managed stand.  
**1:10:33-1:10:44:**  There's limitations to both of these strategies.  Both planting something new means you assume all these costs energetically time and planting  stock and site prep.  
**1:10:44-1:10:57:**  But you get the species you want at the spacing that you desire.  Whereas if you've got existing woods, there's no planting required.  You go in there and harvest and that is your first coppice rotation.  
**1:10:57-1:11:16:**  But you don't necessarily get to choose what species are there and how they're dispersed.  But I feel like on many farm landscapes where I live, we see that just with land abandonment,  there's these margins of the landscape that have just gone derelict.  
**1:11:16-1:11:32:**  And those are just very easy spaces to begin to think about how we might glean some value  from what's happening there without any need for us to really intervene and establish new  plantings.  
**1:11:32-1:11:58:**  That's a really interesting and important consideration to bring out.  Before, I wanted to mention two more systems, typical systems, products, benefits from coppicing.  One of them is kind of unexpected in fig culture to produce fresh figs or dried figs.  
**1:11:58-1:12:12:**  They're moving towards more intensive systems that are laid out by about five meters by  two and a half on the row in meters.  And these figs, the beauty of it is that it produces on new growth.  
**1:12:12-1:12:26:**  And so by coppicing them, you extend the growing season.  So basically what they're doing is that they need to be regularly rejuvenating the wood  because they need to have a minimum growth to have more production.  
**1:12:26-1:12:33:**  So they can't just be satisfied with 20 centimeter growth on the tip of a branch because then  they're only going to have four or five figs on that branch.  They're aiming for more.  
**1:12:33-1:12:48:**  And so what they're doing is that they're slowly moving from a form tree to a coppiced  multi-stemmed open cup that they regularly cut back.  And they'll do, for example, maybe one line out of two to not lose.  
**1:12:48-1:13:01:**  So that's another way where coppicing can work for horticultural crops.  And another one is obviously the big one, which is forage, forage for animals, which  nowadays there's a lot of big movement in France happening around this, which Etienne  
**1:13:01-1:13:19:**  is very close to with the French Agroforestry Association, etc.  With the increase in the prices of feed for animals, with the supply chain disturbances  that we've seen and the risk that poses to a high input intensity system like feeding  
**1:13:19-1:13:30:**  animals, depending on context, of course, they're moving more and more towards tree  forage.  Also farmers that are working on pasture, climate change is affecting the more extreme  
**1:13:30-1:13:43:**  temperatures that we have are affecting the productivity of the pasture, especially in  the summer when the trees have got that resilience and the depth of roots and the physiological  system to establish a green, lush canopy.  
**1:13:43-1:13:55:**  And they're moving more and more towards working with ligneous forage.  So ligneous forage is a bad translation for French, but basically they cut down the trees  and it's starting to be economically viable for them to do that.  
**1:13:55-1:14:11:**  Like they were doing before, the French countryside, all of the hedges of the French countryside,  the limits of the plots and the French countryside, lots of small plots, they're all with big  pollards, large pollards of poplars, of plantains, of oaks as well.  
**1:14:11-1:14:22:**  You see these big pollarded trees that now are exceeded there, now they've been abandoned  for years, so they grow and grow and grow.  But this is what the countryside was depending on these systems for feeding the animals of  
**1:14:22-1:14:37:**  the farmers and subsistence families.  So anyways, this is also a really important aspect of the conversation because this really  solves a big problem and is being scaled at the moment as we speak for animal farmers.  
**1:14:37-1:14:55:**  Well, I was just going to say it's encouraging to hear about how much, because there's so  much cultural memory and knowledge of these practices already in place in Europe, whereas  for the most part, a lot of people don't necessarily even know what they're doing or why.  
**1:14:55-1:15:08:**  Like in the southeastern United States, there's this cultural practice that basically is a  form of pollarding that you'll see in people's front yards, but a lot of folks don't even  necessarily know that that's what they're doing.  
**1:15:08-1:15:28:**  It's just something that they kind of grew up with and have continued.  But as far as the adoption of these practices, because they're not part of our history so  much here, it's just much slower to see the adoption of these things.  
**1:15:28-1:15:51:**  And I think there's more conversation growing because agroforestry, just as a practice that  is acknowledged and encouraged both within the agricultural university realm as well  as more the governmental and conservation realm, it's really starting to grow leaps  
**1:15:51-1:16:02:**  and bounds here in the United States and Canada in the last decade or so.  But some of these other practices aren't part of the toolkit just because we don't have  that cultural memory.  
**1:16:02-1:16:17:**  And so it's really interesting to hear about the innovations that are going on there.  And I look forward to looking into those a little more.  Yeah, we may have some interesting, we're going to start a collaboration with the French  
**1:16:17-1:16:27:**  Agroforestry Association to run a podcast with them called Cambien.  And we will be interviewing some of the farmers that are in French though, are doing these  practices.  
**1:16:27-1:16:35:**  French is a bit of a bubble.  There's a lot of things happening in it, but it doesn't really get out so much due to language  barriers, etc.  
**1:16:35-1:16:50:**  But it's buzzing with agro-cological practices.  It's a fascinating place to be right now for agro-cology, I believe.  I had a question I wanted to ask you about, more a physiological question, which is very  
**1:16:50-1:17:00:**  related to agroforestry and the interaction between a tree and an alley crop, for example,  in alley cropping.  What is the impact of coppicing on root development?  
**1:17:00-1:17:08:**  Is there any science on this?  Because I tried to look and I didn't find much.  But you know, if we're thinking about an alley cropping system where coppicing or pollarding  
**1:17:08-1:17:25:**  can make a lot of sense to improve light access, as an example, or a windbreak system, relatively  frequent, that again, after a certain while we don't want to have too much light competition  with the alley crop, and the trees can bother also with mechanisation, etc.  
**1:17:25-1:17:37:**  Anyway, these certain constraints.  Could it also benefit by reducing the amount of roots that are needed?  Because if we have a smaller canopy, we could potentially have a smaller root.  
**1:17:37-1:17:49:**  This is intuitively, but I need some professional help on this.  I don't have a confident definitive answer for you either.  This was something that my research did not want me to.  
**1:17:49-1:18:01:**  And it's a great question.  I think it would be really valuable to know.  I know just in my own practice through some of the permaculture and also managed grazing  
**1:18:01-1:18:15:**  realms, there's a lot of talk both in more of the kind of permaculture slash, you know,  woody agroforestry about, you know, the use of nitrogen fixing woodies as a way of adding  fertility to the landscape.  
**1:18:15-1:18:30:**  But I've never seen anything that describes and quantifies how much root dieback there  is.  And intuitively, my mind, I would imagine that most of that would occur out in those  
**1:18:30-1:18:45:**  like the periphery of the root system, the fine root hairs.  And I would think that as because one of the benefits of these practices is that when you,  you know, when you coppice a plant, you have a root system that's already established.  
**1:18:45-1:19:03:**  So it's got this jumpstart over a seedling because the root system may be five or 10  or 20 or 50 years old.  But that root system is still increasing in its scale every season.  
**1:19:03-1:19:17:**  And so I would have to imagine that it's not going to keep it at the same scale as what  you would see, you know, in terms of aerial parts that it would expand, but there would  still be dieback on those fine root hairs at the very least.  
**1:19:17-1:19:34:**  But there's a question I don't have answered.  I've heard of people using, you know, subsoilers as a way of like root pruning along rows and  trying to minimize some of the competition between, you know, planted alleys of trees  
**1:19:34-1:19:46:**  from within whatever the crop is within the alleyways.  If that's the case, you know, some species tend to be more prone to suckering and sprouting  from the roots.  
**1:19:46-1:19:57:**  So it would be good to, you know, just be aware of that if that's something you're planning  to do.  Are you going to generate a whole bunch of new sprouts from the existing root system?  
**1:19:57-1:20:09:**  But beyond that, unfortunately, I don't have a good answer for you.  I don't know.  Well, here, if there's any, and there are some academics and researchers that listen  
**1:20:09-1:20:22:**  to our podcast, well, this is a shout out to them.  Help us find some answers.  Because actually, I've just visited the Restainquier Agroforestry Research Plot in Montpellier,  
**1:20:22-1:20:36:**  the one that's one of the initial and very famous agroforestry sites.  And they've done an experiment.  It was kind of imposed on them because they have large walnut trees, hybrid black walnuts  
**1:20:36-1:20:52:**  and English walnut trees that they're pruning and managing for wood production, for, you  know, having a timber trunk.  And they, basically what happened is that they have an electrical cable that goes in  
**1:20:52-1:20:58:**  the middle of them.  And so the electric department told them you have to cut the trees.  So they thought, okay, so let's make an experiment out of this.  
**1:20:58-1:21:08:**  And they pollarded the trees at about six meters.  And now they're measuring the growth rate of the trees on the pollarded trees as compared  to the non-pollarded trees.  
**1:21:08-1:21:21:**  And they've seen that there's reduction in the growth rates of these trees, which is  interesting and it's expected, right?  Less boat synthesis, less canopy size, so less energy going into the tree.  
**1:21:21-1:21:38:**  But I'm curious if they're going to be measuring the roots because that would be, it's a research  site and they've got like tunnels dug and stuff and measure lots of things.  Yeah, it's an interesting little experiment that they've got going there.  
**1:21:38-1:22:01:**  I mean, so much of what's happening below the surface of the soil is a mystery to me.  And I have to believe that there is some root dieback and some, you know, improvement in  soil formation and just kind of shifts in the architecture of the roots as a result.  
**1:22:01-1:22:15:**  But yeah, I just haven't encountered much.  And I think it's probably because it's a pretty challenging thing to monitor.  Yeah, I wanted to ask you about the productivity of the coppice stand in terms of biomass as  
**1:22:15-1:22:32:**  compared to other forestry, conventional forestry practices because obviously this is really  interesting to be able to understand if biomass is the main product here, it can be an interesting  element for the farmer to understand.  
**1:22:32-1:22:42:**  So maybe you could talk to us a bit about this.  Yeah, absolutely.  And, you know, I like to kind of couch this discussion, just reminding listeners that,  
**1:22:42-1:22:53:**  you know, coppicing, pollarding, whatever technique that you're using is just one more  tool in our toolkit.  And I'm saying this especially as someone who lives in a place where we're blessed with,  
**1:22:53-1:23:11:**  you know, pretty abundant and moderately healthy high forest that is, you know, already multi-storied,  in many cases diverse, and is growing wood, just if left to its own devices.  And so it's not to say that these techniques are necessarily better than conventional silviculture,  
**1:23:11-1:23:31:**  they're just a parallel option when it comes to management.  As best I can tell, it seems that coppiced stands produce wood at more or less the same  rate as an equivalent unmanaged, you know, just high forest or just regular forest wood.  
**1:23:31-1:23:47:**  And in my part of the world, the range that I typically have learned to use is between  about one half to one quart of wood per acre per year.  And there's some conversion that we need to get to to make this relevant to everyone.  
**1:23:47-1:24:01:**  We tend to think about wood in volume and not weight in the United States, which has  its limitations.  But a quart of wood is a stack that's four feet by four feet by eight feet.  
**1:24:01-1:24:18:**  It's a nice round number, like all things imperial.  But it appears that that range will vary even more dramatically if you're on sites with  poor fertility or that tend to be drier or don't get as much sunlight.  
**1:24:18-1:24:38:**  So, you know, the site characteristics have a huge impact on productivity.  And but what it appears is for the most part, you don't necessarily generate more wood volume  in a stand that's coppiced than you would in a just natural forest stand.  
**1:24:38-1:24:55:**  What's changing is the allocation of that new wood that's generated.  So instead of it being, you know, a couple of millimeters around an existing, you know,  large diameter tree, you're getting dozens of new sprouts that are, you know, your thumb  
**1:24:55-1:25:10:**  in diameter in one season and they grow to be two meters tall.  And so it's really just about thinking about how are we distributing that new wood that's  generated and how does that then become useful?  
**1:25:10-1:25:22:**  That coppicing allows us to generate wood products of small diameter.  It's really the way I've kind of framed it in the book is about generating and exploring  a pole wood economy.  
**1:25:22-1:25:33:**  Pole would be in things that, you know, wood stems that are smaller than eight inches or  20 centimeters in diameter.  It's really all about thinking about that smaller diameter wood and how do we use it?  
**1:25:33-1:25:51:**  And we're in this civilization that's awash with lumber these days that most people don't  think about the value and utility of round poles.  But it appears again, and this varies a bit because once we get into some of these like  
**1:25:51-1:26:06:**  high density, you know, short rotation coppice stands, it's basically more of an agricultural  enterprise than it is a silviculture or forestry enterprise.  And those are often super densely planted, fertilized.  
**1:26:06-1:26:18:**  There's a lot of site prep that goes into it and weed control as well to really kick  start those systems.  And that's where we're seeing things upwards of, you know, I'm just looking at some numbers  
**1:26:18-1:26:31:**  I had here with, there's can be wide ranges depending on the scale of the stand, but with  some willow species, we can see anywhere from six to 30 metric tons per hectare per year  generated.  
**1:26:31-1:26:50:**  And then eucalyptus can be equivalent or higher when we get into warmer climates with things  like black locust or rabbinia, you know, two to 13 metric tons per hectare per year.  Those are often at these super dense industrial scale plantations on at least the higher end  
**1:26:50-1:27:00:**  and on productive sites.  But by and large, it feels like it's really a matter of just reallocating the way that  new wood's generated.  
**1:27:00-1:27:17:**  And so that just helps us kind of think again in terms of rods and poles, like how does  that fit into our economy, into the products that we convert that material into and the  ways we kind of add value to our farm business and or just, you know, our overall quality  
**1:27:17-1:27:25:**  of life on a farm.  That's fascinating.  And whilst at the same time managing interactions, if we're talking like forestry context, managing  
**1:27:25-1:27:39:**  canopy sizes, canopy widths, heights, and all the ensuing impact on light competition,  etc.  So it's a fine tool to be able to manage.  
**1:27:39-1:27:52:**  Just to say that I haven't clearly stated this yet, but it's important is that light  is probably the most important variable besides like site quality.  But light is really essential to good coppice growth.  
**1:27:52-1:28:07:**  And so historically, traditional coppice stands would be this compartmentalized rotational  forestry system of small patch scale clear cuts that would be anywhere from a quarter  to three acres in size.  
**1:28:07-1:28:22:**  And that's really just about opening up enough canopy that those stools are flooded with  light and can grow really vigorously.  And so you can do this at the individual plant scale, but it's very important that as  
**1:28:22-1:28:33:**  much as possible, they're getting a lot of light during the early years of regrowth that  you can't just expect to coppice a plant in the middle of, you know, a forest canopy and  get much new growth.  
**1:28:33-1:28:48:**  And so light is a really crucial variable to all this.  And you also mentioned another one just before, which is soil quality.  And as with most tree systems, there is this belief that tree systems should go on very  
**1:28:48-1:29:02:**  marginal lands because that's not where agricultural systems, but what we know of, especially with  the trees we're working with in Europe, for example, in agroforestry systems is if we  plant them on very poor land, they're going to grow very poorly, often not super straight  
**1:29:02-1:29:15:**  and have, it depends on the objective, but if the objective is to produce timber, then  we have to be thinking about reasonable land to plant this on.  So I'm curious if that also applies to coppicing.  
**1:29:15-1:29:36:**  I mean, yes, absolutely.  I also think that ideally we're trying to match species selection to site quality.  And so there's a certain element of just anticipation of, of lower productivity, lower quality.  
**1:29:36-1:29:52:**  And so, yes, there's a tension that exists there because with some of these biomass plantations,  they really want quality agricultural soils.  And so that becomes a bit of a challenge because, you know, we often tend to want to preserve  
**1:29:52-1:30:08:**  those landscapes for food and not so much for fiber biomass.  So I would tend to look to more early successional, like on more marginal sites, I tend to look  to more early successional species, nitrogen fixing species, species that tend to be disturbance  
**1:30:08-1:30:21:**  adapted and, and pioneers, so to speak.  And less at things that are going to be necessarily, you know, more slow growing and, and requiring  of better site quality.  
**1:30:21-1:30:35:**  And that's again, where I think also just kind of looking to what ecological succession  naturally trends towards in your landscape is going to be a great tool.  And so there's, there's similarly to the economy side of things when it comes to species selection,  
**1:30:35-1:30:49:**  there's, there's, you know, what you want for whatever your product need is, but then  there's also what your site tends to suggest.  And so just like any other crop, it's like you want to do some of that upfront analysis  
**1:30:49-1:31:07:**  in terms of site and or either do whatever site prep is going to be necessary to try  to improve things for the species you'd like to grow, or perhaps recalibrating your goals  and and your, you know, your production needs around whatever those constraints are on site.  
**1:31:07-1:31:24:**  Yeah, that makes a lot of sense, adapt expectations as well to the potential of that site.  I was just curious if, for example, a similar species would grow a similar species, one  managed as a straight stem for timber and the other managed as a coppice.  
**1:31:24-1:31:38:**  If there would be a large difference in if the management of it as a coppice, for example,  would maybe favor would make it easier for the tree to gain value and in poor, in a poor  quality site.  
**1:31:38-1:31:47:**  You see what I mean?  Because of this idea that often, for example, in poor sites, we have trees that do not grow  very straight and that struggle.  
**1:31:47-1:31:59:**  And so maybe a coppicing system would be a bit more adapted instead of trying to aim  for a very, very straight trunk.  But anyway, this is specifically some of the feedback I've been having from black locust  
**1:31:59-1:32:10:**  farmers in France, for example, that I've been visiting recently and it's been very  interesting.  So I think to a degree that also the genetics play into it quite a bit, because there can  
**1:32:10-1:32:21:**  be a lot of variability in especially with black locust.  There can be a lot of variability in terms of just the straightness of the stem to begin  with.  
**1:32:21-1:32:41:**  And so, you know, they talk about ship mass locust that's been selected and as often,  you know, propagated asexually so that you know that you're getting stock from a parent  that grew straight would be at least as important as site quality.  
**1:32:41-1:32:54:**  The way that we talk about site quality in forestry here in the States is using this  idea of the site index.  And so it, you may end up with, like, for example, the black locust, I've planted black  
**1:32:54-1:33:01:**  locust on silty clay soils here.  Very heavy, dense clay.  It doesn't really like those soils.  
**1:33:01-1:33:18:**  And we've seen a lot of damage from the locust stem borer, which is, you know, I was my high  value product coming from this stand is hot poles, fence posts and building poles for  outdoor structures, arbors, pergolas, etc.  
**1:33:18-1:33:30:**  And so some of that damage that's gone on is going to render those poles not useful  for my highest value.  And I think it's largely because I came to this site thinking I wanted to grow black  
**1:33:30-1:33:48:**  locust for these uses, kind of ignoring the fact that I'm trying to grow it on soil that  doesn't like so it has been more susceptible to pest damage, probably because of that.  It may also be a genetic predisposition as well based on the stock that I sourced.  
**1:33:48-1:34:05:**  But we talk about the site index as a measure of the productivity of a site.  And so that's a way different soils that we have, you know, named all the soils and the  continental United States are classified.  
**1:34:05-1:34:21:**  Some soils will just grow wood faster based on that productivity.  And so you may end up with more defect or more, you know, than being more disease prone.  I don't know that it would affect straightness, I would think the density of the stand and  
**1:34:21-1:34:39:**  the genetics of the stem would be more a factor there.  But it would definitely affect rate of growth, that it would just take that many, the site  index basically is a figure that describes at 50 years age, how tall should trees reach  
**1:34:39-1:34:47:**  on those soils.  And basically all of the soils that they've mapped in the United States have an associated  site index.  
**1:34:47-1:35:05:**  And so the higher the number, the faster the growth, the more productive the soil.  So I would think that would be a bigger factor, again, coupled with just more susceptibility  to disease or pest damage because they're not well suited to that soil type.  
**1:35:05-1:35:22:**  I think in terms of straight growth, it would be better suited by planting densely and then  thinning strategically along the life of the stand.  Although if you're, and then, I mean, if it's initial plantation, they're just single trees,  
**1:35:22-1:35:36:**  when you coppice them, if that's the goal, you're going to get a bunch of sprouts.  And so you can either leave those, all those sprouts to self-select and the ones that grow  fastest and strongest are the ones that win, or you could take the time to go through and  
**1:35:36-1:35:52:**  prune down to two or three sprouts on each stool.  And in that sense, you kind of concentrate that energy and also decide who wins.  But again, by keeping things fairly dense, depending on the rotation, again, a 15 to  
**1:35:52-1:36:08:**  20 year rotation, they may be three meters, 10 feet apart, both in row and between row  is what's going to really try to help send that growth upwards.  And then being as deliberate as you can be with sourcing genetics that show the quality  
**1:36:08-1:36:21:**  of growth that you want, I think also is important if you have that option.  Listen, I think that we've covered a lot of this, of some of the main topics we wanted  to discuss together.  
**1:36:21-1:36:36:**  And maybe you could tell us a bit more about where we can find the book that you've written,  Copist Agroforestry, and also find out more about your work and your farm.  Where can we get some more info?  
**1:36:36-1:36:44:**  Absolutely.  Thank you.  So for listeners in the United States, they can buy the book straight from me, which I  
**1:36:44-1:36:58:**  like best if that's an option for you.  Our website is valleyclayplain.com.  That's our farm website and that's clay, P-L-A-I-N, Valley Clay Plain, which valleyclayplain.com.  
**1:36:58-1:37:17:**  The Valley Clay Plain Forest is the natural community that was once commonplace throughout  the basin where we live here in the New York, Vermont area.  And for folks in Canada, New Society Publishers is a great option.  
**1:37:17-1:37:25:**  And internationally, I don't have the best answer internationally.  It should be available.  You could ask at any local bookshop.  
**1:37:25-1:37:35:**  They should be able to get it for you through their distributor.  I know it's available through Amazon.  I tend not to recommend that as an option for folks if they can buy it from someone  
**1:37:35-1:37:48:**  else, but I know that does work.  I've been told Better World Books is another option in Australia.  I believe Meliodora was going to carry it as well, which is a publisher slash distributor  
**1:37:48-1:38:02:**  there.  And as far as finding out a little bit more about myself and the Homestead Farm that my  wife and I manage here in Vermont, we have a few different websites that I mentioned  
**1:38:02-1:38:12:**  the farm website valleyclayplain.com.  We have basically we focus primarily on shiitake mushrooms and blackcurrants and some value  added crops around that.  
**1:38:12-1:38:26:**  And then we also have a high tunnel greenhouse.  Basically we're a big homestead small farm with a couple of enterprises that are increasingly  becoming part of our income stream here.  
**1:38:26-1:38:48:**  Trying to add some of these craft bits into it as our planted systems begin to mature.  And then both as a designer, consultant and educator, my website is keylinevermont.com.  That's K-E-Y-L-I-N-E, Vermont, all spelled out V-E-R-M-O-N-T.com.  
**1:38:48-1:39:08:**  So those are good places to learn a bit more about me.  The book has a website called coppiceagroforestry.com and I haven't added much to it recently, but  there's some pretty deep archive in the blog of Chronicles of Travels and some of the research  
**1:39:08-1:39:16:**  and learning that Dave and I did along the way.  So that's another kind of compendium to the book itself.  Ned Point folks too.  
**1:39:16-1:39:19:**  Very nice.  Fantastic.  Amazing.  
**1:39:19-1:39:35:**  So I'll put all these links as I usually do in the show notes below for all our listeners  to access easily.  And yeah, so this is a very exciting topic and thank you so much for taking the time  
**1:39:35-1:39:49:**  to share with us your experience with copy psychophoristry and copy sync.  I'm sure we could have talked a lot more as well about your farm and your different activities,  but it's difficult even in an hour and three quarters to cover one subject properly and  
**1:39:49-1:39:59:**  this is the beauty of this type of work.  So thank you so much for taking the time and sharing your experience with us.  It's my pleasure, Dimitri.  
**1:39:59-1:40:09:**  Thank you so much.  I really value the work that you all are doing and the reach that you've achieved and the  platform you're giving folks.  
**1:40:09-1:40:13:**  So keep it up.  It's fantastic.  