---
title: 78 Community Gardens In Tāmaki Makaurau And Organic No Till Vineyards
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Farmerama  (2023-01-01)  
### Author(s): Farmerama  

**[0:00:00-0:00:25](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:00:00):**  Hello and welcome to Farmerama. Hope you're cozying up for those of you in the northern  hemisphere and anyone in the southern hemisphere enjoying the middle of summer. In this episode  we have two interviews for you. First, Olivia visited a community garden in her homeland  
**[0:00:25-0:00:55](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:00:25):**  and then I visit a farmer in California who walks us through the organic no-till vineyard  system he has created. Hi, I'm Olivia. I've been working with Farmerama for the last four  years behind the scenes and I'm also working on a PhD about land ownership and agroecology.  
**[0:00:55-0:01:10](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:00:55):**  Earlier this year I went home to Aotearoa New Zealand to visit my family for the first  time since before Covid. While I was there I visited Pāoriwa in Talmaki Makaurau, or  Auckland where I spoke with Etienne Niho, the garden manager and a keen horticulturalist  
**[0:01:10-0:01:29](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:01:10):**  and ecologist. I'm really excited to share this interview. Etienne speaks so beautifully  about why the land and the garden are so important to him, to the iwi and to the wider community.  Pāoriwa was given back to Ngāti Whātua Orake in 2018 by the New Zealand government  
**[0:01:29-0:01:47](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:01:29):**  as a cultural reparation for taking the iwi's land from them almost 200 years ago. In taking  that land they had broken the Treaty of Waitangi, one of Aotearoa's founding constitutional  documents. The land is now co-managed by Ngāti Whātua Orake and the City Council. It's important  
**[0:01:47-0:02:02](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:01:47):**  to me to share the reality of how the land in Aotearoa and who owns it got to be how  they are, as well as the amazing work being done on the land by those it has been returned  to. I thought it would be useful for listeners outside of Aotearoa to have a bit of a glossary  
**[0:02:02-0:02:21](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:02:02):**  of key words in Tereu Māori that Etienne uses. Tereu means the language and Pākehā  refers to New Zealanders of European descent like me. So Tereu Māori is the Māori language  and Tereu Pākehā is English. Māra means garden and Kāi means food. So a Māra Kāi  
**[0:02:21-0:02:40](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:02:21):**  is a food or vegetable garden. The whenua is the land, the taiyau is the environment  and rākau are trees. Tupuna are ancestors and Māori, like the Māori of the whenua  that Etienne talks about, is life force. Whānau means family, while an iwi is an extended  
**[0:02:40-0:02:59](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:02:40):**  kinship group. Etienne mainly refers to Ngāti Whātua orākei who are the tangata whenua  or the people of the land at Pāoriwa. He also talks later about his own iwi Ngāti  Hine Ngāpuhi. A marae is a meeting place. Tamahi is to work, Tsuraru is to have conflict  
**[0:02:59-0:03:15](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:02:59):**  or fight, and Satoituku is to support. We'll post these definitions in the blog post for  this episode so you can refer back to them easily. Kia ora everyone, my name is Etienne  Niho. I'm the Rōkōra Māra Kiraungē Te whenua Pāoriwa, so I'm the Māra manager  
**[0:03:15-0:03:33](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:03:15):**  at Pāoriwa. I hail from the north. I was born and raised in Whangarei in a little town  called Pippiwa. In land we've got no mauna that we affiliate to, so it's all aua and  streams that we affiliate to. I've been part of Ngāti Whātua iwi for about 11 years now.  
**[0:03:33-0:03:50](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:03:33):**  I've been with my partner, married for five, into the Hawke whānau. So this piece of land  that we're on directly is called Pāoriwa. It comes from the saying, kare wate po, kare  wate tangata, so to elevate the poes, to elevate the people. Because this was a lookout point  
**[0:03:50-0:04:07](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:03:50):**  back in the day for Ngāti Whātua. They would look out over the basin for enemies or for  anyone that was coming in and around the estuaries or Okaahū Bay. This piece of land has been  used for, it was a pony club. And four years ago it was gifted back to Ngāti Whātua. We  
**[0:04:07-0:04:28](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:04:07):**  kind of look after the Rākō, the Māori of the whenua, the native nursery and the Māra  Kāi. I guess the project on Pāoriwa was developed because we had a small marae nursery.  It was like maybe 50,000 plant capacity. At the back of our marae was pretty humble and  
**[0:04:28-0:04:48](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:04:28):**  we needed to expand to be able to meet our needs for the whenua as well as council contractual  needs. We can house 450 to 400,000 plants at full capacity in our nursery, which is  pretty massive compared to 50,000 before. And that's our commercial arm, so that's our  
**[0:04:48-0:05:07](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:04:48):**  bread and butter, which keeps us all employed. But on the other side of Pāoriwa we have  the Māra Kāi. And the Māra Kāi or the Kāi Garden is developed to feed the community  and feed the iwi. Back in the days in Te Aumāori you wouldn't be judged of how much land,  
**[0:05:07-0:05:22](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:05:07):**  how many people or the area that you're in, you'd be judged of your kai. Your kai was  your currency, your kai was your sustenance of your iwi. So back in the days we would  have been highly revered people, we would have been VIPs in a sense. It's a funny way  
**[0:05:22-0:05:37](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:05:22):**  to look at it, but we would have been on the pedestal because the people that feed the  iwi keep the iwi alive. So I guess the kaupapa that we're trying to instil within our mahi  is to provide that sustenance, but not just for our iwi, for our eastern community, for  
**[0:05:37-0:05:53](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:05:37):**  our city mission, for our less fortunate throughout Tāmaki Makaurau predominantly and our other  mārai. We don't sell any of the kai, it's all for the love. And I guess when you grow  kai to give it away, knowing that you're nourishing people and helping give them healthy organic  
**[0:05:53-0:06:11](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:05:53):**  kai, it's a really, really rewarding job. It's something that I like to see a lot more  of because quite often the importance is undervalued by the monetary figure or the monetary gain  of these things in other places. For example, you know, you've got big supermarkets and  
**[0:06:11-0:06:29](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:06:11):**  stuff that are selling the same type of veggies, you know, that have been sprayed, etc. at  a ridiculous rate. It makes eating healthy unaffordable. And it's crazy that, you know,  a top producer of quite a bit of this kai, you know, it charges its own people a lot  
**[0:06:29-0:06:43](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:06:29):**  of money. So I guess for us, it's been an awesome piece to show what you can do with  the bit of land, the right heart, I guess. I guess, you know, if your heart's not in  the right place and you're not there for the right reason, things won't flow or work as  
**[0:06:43-0:06:57](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:06:43):**  well as they do. But I guess because the passion about it and it's more than just growing kai,  it's about sustaining our iwi and our people.  Education is also really important at Pāoriwa, and Etienne and his colleagues spend a lot  
**[0:06:57-0:07:09](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:06:57):**  of time with students from primary school to university level, showing them around the  mata and teaching them about growing kai.  It's a massive education piece, you know, teaching kids that you can grow your own kai  
**[0:07:09-0:07:23](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:07:09):**  at home, you can eat your own kai and it's a lot more sustainable, healthy, organic,  but also it's a way to reconnect with the whenua. And that's the main part. You know,  you don't have to be Māori to connect with the whenua of Aotearoa. You know, if you've  
**[0:07:23-0:07:38](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:07:23):**  got the right mindset and your heart's in the right place, you know, it's for everyone.  And that's what I really like to try and break down any barriers about Māori land is for  everyone only. No, it's not. It's for everyone. And that was what it was intended for, to  
**[0:07:38-0:07:51](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:07:38):**  be shared. And I guess we're still sharing the way that we mahi, the way that we share  our ideas and our knowledge. There's no point in having knowledge if you don't share it.  So if you don't disperse it or pass it out, you know, that's how it does get lost.  
**[0:07:51-0:08:04](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:07:51):**  The māra at Pāoriwa is laid out in a circle, with a plan to have a sundial and a moondial  in the centre. It was designed by Rob Small to reflect the philosophy of the māra, which  is based around the māramataka, or Māori lunar calendar.  
**[0:08:04-0:08:21](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:08:04):**  When you use the sundial, we can plant east facing, which would be tūturu, to how we  would have planted east to west. So the plants get the first sun in the morning and the last  sun in the night time. But as well as that, it's a good guiding principle because there's  
**[0:08:21-0:08:35](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:08:21):**  some days where it'll be a perfectly beautiful sunny day, but it won't be a good planting  day. And quite a few people go, oh, you know, it's all about the sun. Really? Yeah, the  sun gives the plants the energy to further synthesise, right? But they really grow and  
**[0:08:35-0:08:51](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:08:35):**  develop at night time under the power of the moon. That's when the fruit grow. That's when  the actual plants grow themselves. And the moon power is massively important to plants,  to us as people and to the world in general, to the taiau in general. Without the moon  
**[0:08:51-0:09:05](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:08:51):**  power, you wouldn't have that push and pull, you know, it would be totally unbalanced.  So I guess having those matapona or values that we use in the māra really helped guide  us. There's some days where we'll even look at it and go, hey, look, it's not a good māra  
**[0:09:05-0:09:17](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:09:05):**  mataka day. It's a low energy day, it's a time for planting. And so we'll come up here  and we'll sit up in the hub and talk about different ways that we're going to grow our  kai, you know, and just kind of use that time to reflect like we would have back in the  
**[0:09:17-0:09:32](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:09:17):**  days because that's what we're trying to, I guess, pay homage to it or recreate is the  knowledge that our tupuna would have used to grow and to read the land. But, you know,  being at one with the whenua definitely means soaking all aspects of it in.  
**[0:09:32-0:09:42](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:09:32):**  Pāoriwa doesn't sell the food they produce. Instead, they give it away to community members  each Friday.  We have a nice little set up on Friday. We've got our signs out on the front area. We have  
**[0:09:42-0:10:01](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:09:42):**  a little table set up, different signs of what the kai are in Māori name and in Te Raupaka.  So it's a good learning curve for all. One thing that I will say about Pāoriwa is that  it's a piece of whenua that's provided massive opportunities of growth, not only for the  
**[0:10:01-0:10:16](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:10:01):**  iwi, but for other people working it day in, day out. Not only did we work just to earn  money, but we work to learn. So we're all involved in ITO programs. So we're getting  like level three, level four horticulture. We've got a couple of our lads that are qualified  
**[0:10:16-0:10:31](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:10:16):**  Aperture members. So they're beaming. I guess it's provided a lot of opportunities for whānau  to also see where their passions are. Until you come and volunteer or come down to Pāoriwa,  you don't know what the vibe's like working with the whenua and how healing it is.  
**[0:10:31-0:10:46](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:10:31):**  That's something that I'm definitely working in the side I do on the māra kai is that  when, like I said before, when you're not selling the kai, but you're giving it up,  knowing that you're nourishing and you're providing for your whānau, for your nannies,  
**[0:10:46-0:10:59](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:10:46):**  for your favorite aunties, for your cousins, your little nieces and nephews, that type  of mahi is priceless. I've been doing it for nearly three years now and the buzz that I  still get every Friday or every harvest day when I give out to the whānau, everyone goes,  
**[0:10:59-0:11:13](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:10:59):**  man, you look so happy about this. And I said, how can you not be happy providing this organic,  beautiful kai to people and then having members of the community coming in when our whānau  are there. And also seeing the whānau and then making the relationships and seeing us  
**[0:11:13-0:11:30](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:11:13):**  all as one community. That's what it's about, pulling people together over free kai. People  look at it and go, it's not a big thing. In my eyes, it's a massive thing. It's a way  that the whole of Aotearoa should be, we shouldn't be paying for organic fresh produce like this.  
**[0:11:30-0:11:46](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:11:30):**  Like I said, being one of the main producers of it and exporters of fresh produce, it's  crazy that our people don't have access to this type of kai readily. It blows my mind  actually. And until you work in this type of field and I guess experience it from, not  
**[0:11:46-0:12:05](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:11:46):**  from a monetary gain, but from a mana gain, it really shows it's really evident. For me,  I'm not out here for fame or for kudos about the mahi that I do directly. I want to uplift  Ngāti Whātua orākei's image in regards to what they're doing for the iwi, what they're  
**[0:12:05-0:12:21](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:12:05):**  doing for the community. So I'm nothing but a bare servant to the iwi and I wouldn't have  it any other way because in the day, a small narrative Ngāti Hine came to the aid of Ngāti  Whātua. They housed them when they were having battles with Ngātui, Nui Tōnu, with my bigger  
**[0:12:21-0:12:37](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:12:21):**  iwi and didn't engage in those conflicts. And so, maraiva gifted to Ngāti Hine through  Ngāti Whātua. And for me, my story is yeah, Ngāti Hine will continue to toe-talk with  Ngāti Whātua orākei because us as Māori need to stick together this day and age. Yeah,  
**[0:12:37-0:12:47](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:12:37):**  we had a lot of Lāua fights back in the day, but now it's us as a people, as Bān, to look  out for the finua, to look out for the taiyau and to look out for each other.  Kia ora.  
**[0:12:47-0:13:04](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:12:47):**  Kia ora.  Jason Jardine is President and Director of Winemaking at Hansel Vineyard in Sonoma, California.  He's been there since 2014 and together with the team, he's created an organic no-till  
**[0:13:04-0:13:22](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:13:04):**  vineyard system. They graze cows, pigs, chickens, ducks, geese and sheep, moving through the  vines daily in winter and spring, and then moving them into the forest for summer and  autumn. Originally, I had thought that the animals were the most important feature of  
**[0:13:22-0:13:40](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:13:22):**  the system, but actually, as Jason explains, there's other parts that are maybe even more  important.  The system really started with just integrating sheep into the vineyards in the very beginning.  
**[0:13:40-0:13:52](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:13:40):**  And because at the time we were so interested in collecting and looking at data and really  understanding the impact of what the sheep were having to not only the soil biology,  but the growth of the cover crop and the vines, the fertility and everything around it, the  
**[0:13:52-0:14:05](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:13:52):**  obvious things in the very beginning were, of course, just everything felt different.  When you have animals interacting in a symbiotic way with your soil and the plants and they're  walking around and you're integrating with them and the people are in there, it's just  
**[0:14:05-0:14:25](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:14:05):**  a very different feeling. There's a different life associated with the place. And so we  did that for many, many years. And this was in 2004, 2005. We started with sheep. And  what I wasn't really seeing at the time was a lot of the integration of the manure, because  
**[0:14:25-0:14:40](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:14:25):**  here in California, your rainy season is very short. And so what I really was seeing was  a lot of manure was just sitting on top of the soil surface and then drying up and volatile.  So we weren't getting a lot of integration of the fertility of that. And more importantly,  
**[0:14:40-0:14:51](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:14:40):**  sort of like that connection with the humus layer that I was looking for. And so then  incorporated chickens because we're like, okay, we're going to bring chickens into the  system because the chickens are going to scratch through that manure and they're going to be  
**[0:14:51-0:15:07](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:14:51):**  a partner to sort of the sheep. That was a game changer at the time. So I wouldn't graze  today without the chickens. And you'll see down there where our cows just gave birth  to the two calves, we have 45 chickens in with them. And not only does it keep the flies  
**[0:15:07-0:15:24](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:15:07):**  down because they eat the larvae and things like that, but it's really in terms of a soil  health environment and keeping the overall balance there is they're just constantly scratching  in that manure. So in the beginning, we were doing research on just composting versus grazing  
**[0:15:24-0:15:37](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:15:24):**  because we didn't have enough sheep and enough chickens to kind of graze all the acres we  were farming. I was also practicing biodynamics at the time. So the compost was being made  up here in Santa Rosa. We were putting in the biodynamic preparations. I was also bringing  
**[0:15:37-0:15:51](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:15:37):**  rock phosphate and lime from out of state, organic straw from the Central Valley and  or Oregon to mix with it. And then we were you we were needing massive amounts because  of the acreage that we were farming, as well as these vineyards were on volcanic ash and  
**[0:15:51-0:16:05](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:15:51):**  Monterey shale and shifts and things so that pH was very low. So in order to incorporate  enough lime into the system, we had to bring sort of it through the compost because I didn't  want to put just raw lime out there because that is an issue with biology as well. And  
**[0:16:05-0:16:23](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:16:05):**  so so we were just using massive amounts of compost. And what was interesting in the areas  that were we were just composting, we weren't really seeing and this I follow this over  about 10 years, we really weren't seeing an increase in overall fertility. And I was seeing  
**[0:16:23-0:16:42](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:16:23):**  an increase in bacteria levels. And so we are doing we're really looking at the soil  food web closely because I think one thing I did determine early on that our greatest  path to sort of sustainable fertility and combating climate change here in California  
**[0:16:42-0:16:59](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:16:42):**  and working with these shallow rocky soils was just boosting our fungi levels, getting  you know, solidifying that mycelium connection between all the lands that we were on and  creating a humus layer creating soil and all those things and with the composting system,  
**[0:16:59-0:17:10](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:16:59):**  because we were spading it, which I thought at the time was like the best if you're going  to till, you know, use a spader and so we were spading it and then we were handling  under the vines and we're throwing compost under the vines, which then really didn't  
**[0:17:10-0:17:25](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:17:10):**  get any integration into the soil whatsoever. I was doing you know, spraying 500 the biodynamic  preparation 500 on top of the barrel compost, and then we're doing silica and then all the  most of the other preparations were kind of brought through the compost system and then  
**[0:17:25-0:17:42](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:17:25):**  through tillage, we would open up the soils in the spring. And then they would pretty  much remain open all the way until fall rains and trying to get cover crop seeded and that  was always the sketchiest time of year because we were on slopes. And luckily, we were pretty  
**[0:17:42-0:18:02](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:17:42):**  rocky soils. So you didn't have a lot of surface runoff, but I just, I kept looking at that  system and questioning it every single year. And then I was looking at the small amount  of animals we had that were starting to integrate into some of the blocks and it just all felt  
**[0:18:02-0:18:16](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:18:02):**  better to me, it felt right. And then because we weren't seeing really a significant difference  in the fertility of the blocks that we were composting versus the blocks that we learned  and that we are just cover cropping and that we were not crimping yet at the time, we were  
**[0:18:16-0:18:35](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:18:16):**  just grazing. So that kind of what is led into the crimper because I was like, okay,  so if we can just sort of cover crop, graze, move the animals out, get another full growth  of the cover crop, so we're about four to five feet of biomass that we can crimp down  
**[0:18:35-0:18:54](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:18:35):**  then at the appropriate time and laid the surface armor over the whole vineyard floor,  not only would we get much more protection from erosion, but conservation of water, moisture  and carbon sequestration, where I was basically contributing carbon versus sinking carbon,  
**[0:18:54-0:19:09](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:18:54):**  which is my overall goal. And this is still in the mid 2000s when these things really  yet it is hard to find examples. We are really, no one was really talking about it yet. And  so I didn't, this is all, and I'm not a scientist, never went to school, not agronomist, it's  
**[0:19:09-0:19:26](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:19:09):**  all stuff from trying to be thoughtful and do the right thing and etc. So I didn't really  have the tools, I didn't really know what we were going to accomplish, but all I know  is it kind of kept feeling good, just felt better. So the other key thing at the time  
**[0:19:26-0:19:41](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:19:26):**  is that really no till drill cedar existed. So it's like then how do we get new cover  crop into this crimp down material? So that was a challenge for several years and I was  trying to use kind of like the traditional schmeiser drill cedar and it was sort of successful,  
**[0:19:41-0:19:53](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:19:41):**  but it wasn't very successful with larger seeds like peas and fava beans and things  which are kind of key into the system. So I was going pretty heavy with other legumes  like vetch and clovers because they're super small seeds and they tend to work their way  
**[0:19:53-0:20:11](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:19:53):**  down in through the crimp material much easier. I would say that system will consume nitrogen  for about three years and I think this is the other key piece that I unfortunately I  think detours people early on because they see okay I'm not gaining any nitrogen or my  
**[0:20:11-0:20:26](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:20:11):**  petals are showing low nitrogen or my soil, I'm not really seeing it yet. And there's  a lot of things that have to happen sort of in the interim. If you're going from, and  particularly in California, rocky soils, if you're going from a tilled system or even  
**[0:20:26-0:20:42](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:20:26):**  a system where you were perhaps just mowing heavily, you're most likely going to have  fairly low organic matters. And those organic matters are going to be anywhere like here  at Hanzel when we started in 2014 with the system here, our organic matter is 0.5%. So  
**[0:20:42-0:21:02](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:20:42):**  not even 1% but we're on shallow volcanic soils, relatively lower pHs, but we have this  beautiful red hill series clay on top. So the potential for retention of not only water  and nutrients but mycelium and organic matter and boosting fungi levels is absolutely here.  
**[0:21:02-0:21:19](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:21:02):**  So that was one of the most exciting pieces about joining Hanzel. So early on, until you  get the organic matter up to about 5%, you're consuming nitrogen because something needs  to feed the growth of that organic matter. You need to make the adjustments like where  
**[0:21:19-0:21:34](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:21:19):**  you're grazing, what you're just solely going to cover crop and crimp the areas where you're  not grazing, you can boost your legume counts up to a little bit more than 60%, 55% and  go as heavy as maybe 80% in the interim in the first couple years and just decide to  
**[0:21:34-0:21:44](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:21:34):**  solely crimp. Where you're grazing, you have to be cautious of especially with sheep and  things where you don't get a lot of bloating and so you don't want it to be too rich and  so you want to add some carbon but then also carbon is very important into the system.  
**[0:21:44-0:22:01](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:21:44):**  So you want to make sure you at least have 20% carbon. So it's like this very complicated  thing. So here I do, some years have three different cover crop seed mixes on different  parts of the vineyard based on if the plan is to solely graze, if it's to solely crimp  
**[0:22:01-0:22:17](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:22:01):**  or if it's to bale. I love the idea of having animals integrated into the system. I think  that's very, very important and especially if local communities are utilizing these animals  as a food source, as a sustainable way to feed our communities. That's really not happening  
**[0:22:17-0:22:40](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:22:17):**  yet today. So I think in the early stages, I would not graze at all if you weren't prepared  to have kind of the diversified grazing system in place. So I would really recommend like  dialing in an annual cover cropping system and utilizing crimping as a way initially  
**[0:22:40-0:22:58](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:22:40):**  to start building organic matter and get through that kind of three year hump of and then what  you do in the interim. And so I am a proponent of plant based fertigations supplements. So  whether it's hydrolyzed soy protein or pea protein, particularly because of the amino  
**[0:22:58-0:23:14](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:22:58):**  acids and everything else associated it as an interim kind of step to help offset some  of the consumption of nitrogen. You're going to build phosphorus and potassium through  your cover cropping. I don't bring any fertilizers to this ranch, never did from the start in  
**[0:23:14-0:23:33](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:23:14):**  2015. And we're about at 7% organic matter now here and sustained fertility with no need  for anything. It is possible. And so it's just you have to be patient and sort of thoughtful  in the approach. And what you don't want to do is expect too much too soon and allow that  
**[0:23:33-0:23:53](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:23:33):**  to detour your goals and your ambitions to ultimately kind of getting through it and  achieving a system that works for you. I have one question here, which is, maybe you could  just expand a little bit on why is the crimper so key? Like what did you see as the Yeah,  
**[0:23:53-0:24:17](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:23:53):**  we really, as farmers should and can have a major impact on climate change. And then  we really can. And it's, it's a, I know it's like a hard subject or whatever. But the truth  is, is we're major contributors to where we are today. And so carbon sequestration is,  
**[0:24:17-0:24:38](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:24:17):**  is one way of doing that. And I think by laying down rather than pulverizing this biomass,  both carbonous and leguminous. And you have in also in connection with that, these massive  daikon radish. So I'm a huge advocate of incorporating any root crops. And we even so beets and  
**[0:24:38-0:24:52](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:24:38):**  carrots out into internups out into the vineyard, the animals love it. And I think they're a  great store for the exudates from the legume crops to then rerelease that nutrition as  that moisture of that root crop slowly decomposes through the growing season when everything  
**[0:24:52-0:25:12](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:24:52):**  else is already dry or carbonous. So if you just were to mow it, you basically don't get  any of that armor on the soil you don't you can't lay down eight inches of mulch you don't  get slow decomposition. The crimping also allows for longer root activity in the soil  
**[0:25:12-0:25:28](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:25:12):**  throughout the growing season. So so that's another key step to kind of what's the ideal  having living roots in our soils for as long as we can in the growing season or in the  year in general, it's hard to do that. So crimping is a way that you can terminate top  
**[0:25:28-0:25:44](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:25:28):**  growth but still stimulate root growth, that that material then on top doesn't get blown  away, doesn't volatilize off, it provides a lot of moisture helps to feed that humus  layer. So 80% of all of our active biology is in the top 10 centimeters of the soil.  
**[0:25:44-0:25:55](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:25:44):**  So so this goes to another one of those ideal things like what are we trying to accomplish  and to achieve if we know that I mean, these are things I'm not a scientist, but I think  that's fact, right? I mean, that we like this is something that I think we know. And so  
**[0:25:55-0:26:13](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:25:55):**  I try to take the little bits of knowledge actually have and say, okay, if we if we know  that, then why would I do anything to destroy it? I want to build on that I want to I want  to make that 10 centimeters 20 centimeters and then next year I want to make it 30 centimeters  
**[0:26:13-0:26:33](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:26:13):**  I want to do everything I can to expand on that layer not not destroy it once or twice  every year and start over again. The other thing that I have determined is that the higher  the fungi levels to bacteria ratio I can get not only am I seeing greater retention of  
**[0:26:33-0:26:54](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:26:33):**  organic matter and cover crop growth and water retention and vine interaction development  within the soil, it's the vines ability to adapt to different climate situations but  that biology is really what is breaking down the cover cropping and the manures that we're  
**[0:26:54-0:27:10](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:26:54):**  ingrating through our grazing program and actually making them functional, you know,  making them usable. And that was a real breakthrough too was like, okay, I'm seeing fungi and as  I'm seeing this happen, I'm seeing all these benefit and observations at the same time.  
**[0:27:10-0:27:24](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:27:10):**  So there's a correlation there. And that's just something you cannot achieve without  crimping. It just you can't do it. You can't achieve it with just grazing, it will not  happen. So so that's when I go back and say if you can only do one thing if you can only  
**[0:27:24-0:27:43](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:27:24):**  commit to one thing for a period of time commit to cover cropping and crimping. I still plant  cover crop seed every single year. And that's something that I'm starting. Now that the  system is built, and we have the biomass levels that that we have, we have the organic percentage  
**[0:27:43-0:27:59](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:27:43):**  where it needs to be we have we have not only a sustained level of nutrients, but where  fertility is growing year over year is something that I start to scale back on a little and  so I start off, that's something we didn't talk about earlier on to terms of pounds per  
**[0:27:59-0:28:15](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:27:59):**  acre. So I start really heavy in converting these systems, you know, 250 pounds per acre  of annual cover crop seed. And then that gets scaled down as as you start to see an increase  in biomass organic matter. But it's more about that carpet that armor making sure you're  
**[0:28:15-0:28:32](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:28:15):**  getting enough mass in your cover crop to have a significant amount of armor left onto  the soil for our summers and our dry desertification of our area, and then the high solar radiations.  So this year, you know, eight years now or so into the system, I'm still looking at about  
**[0:28:32-0:28:51](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:28:32):**  175 pounds per acre. And again, that's a mix of I try to use, you know, five or six different  types of legumes. And then as many diversified cereals as possible, whether it's red oats,  white oats, triticale, barley, buckwheat, whatever, annual rye. We're pretty successful  
**[0:28:51-0:29:04](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:28:51):**  here in growing all those things, fortunately, and then, you know, peas and clovers and vetch  and and follow beans and things like that, and then we'll incorporate root crops into  it. So it's all about sourcing cover crop seed this time of year.  
**[0:29:04-0:29:17](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:29:04):**  So you've had the grazing going for a little while, then when do you decide to crimp? And  what does that look like?  I try to hit it when the vast majority of the species are at full bloom. Hard to do,  
**[0:29:17-0:29:33](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:29:17):**  right? When you're growing a combination of a lot of cereals and legumes. But that's the  goal. And that they're at their full fertility at that point. And then you still have significant  moisture in a lot of the legumes to have slow decomposition and then provide that connection  
**[0:29:33-0:29:47](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:29:33):**  to the mycelium level that was there and rebuilding it and the humus layer and everything else.  But then the carbonous plants are just starting to carbon up at the stock. Crimp too early,  things flop back up on you. They're just too ringy, right? There's no, so you want to pay  
**[0:29:47-0:30:03](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:29:47):**  a lot of attention to the surface area level and then how carbon is the stock of the plants  at that level. Crimp too late, which is, I guess, in a way better than crimping too early.  But the advantage though to crimp too early is the worst case you make another pass a  
**[0:30:03-0:30:20](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:30:03):**  week or two later, which you try not to do just because of extra tractor work and everything  else, compaction and all that. But you crimp too late and you really miss out on providing  the amount of moisture that you need for the breakdown of nutrients. You might as well  
**[0:30:20-0:30:35](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:30:20):**  throw the straw, dry straw out there and that's not the goal, right? So every year the time  changes. I can change a good bit here actually for us. It can be four weeks apart from the  time that we crimp. So you just pay a lot of attention to, again, what you're observing  
**[0:30:35-0:30:51](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:30:35):**  where, different areas mature at different rates. And so we're spot crimping in some  locations. Steep slopes tend to dry out on top faster than they are doing on the bottom.  So we're looking at those sort of things as well. But timing your crimping is as important  
**[0:30:51-0:31:05](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:30:51):**  as crimping itself, if that makes sense. And then once things are crimped, that's it.  For the year. The other thing I ask a lot too is how do you manage the understory? Because  you can't crimp under the understory, which I wish I haven't found a tool to do that.  
**[0:31:05-0:31:24](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:31:05):**  I wish there was one. And that would be awesome if you can do that. I try to get a crimper  that is as wide as, so I've tried to crimp as much as you can. So if you like here, unfortunately,  we have anything from seven to like 15 foot wide rows on Ambassador's Vineyard. So we  
**[0:31:24-0:31:38](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:31:24):**  have to make multiple passes. So I chose to get a five foot crimper because it fit in  the seven foot rows and that kind of like leaves a foot on each side, which is still  relatively tight, but about as good as you can get. My preference for managing the understory,  
**[0:31:38-0:31:53](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:31:38):**  because even if, even though we're not seeding the understory seed gets spread there, right?  So it's a, it's a massive amount of material that grows in the understory, which we want.  I like to use a sickle bar. So if you can use a sickle bar attachment onto like a weed  
**[0:31:53-0:32:13](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:31:53):**  whacker to where you're just basically cutting it at the soil surface and then letting all  that material fall and mulch in full length, that's ideal. Some, it's hard. That's one  thing that is hard on the vineyard staff is going through and doing that. So I love one  
**[0:32:13-0:32:29](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:32:13):**  day whoever can build an attachment on a tractor to do a sickle bar cut under there would be  awesome because I don't want to till it of course, if for all the reasons we discussed  earlier and weed whacking does tend to pulverize the material and it just kind of gets blown  
**[0:32:29-0:32:45](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:32:29):**  away. We've kind of come up with these weed whacking blades and a technique now that where  we can use regular weed whackers and it kind of just lays, lays down where it's at. And  that's another way to do it. If you use like the blades instead of the string tends to  
**[0:32:45-0:33:02](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:32:45):**  work better and because you want that mulch on the under, I would say it's almost more  important in the understory to keep your soil temperatures cool and particularly for wine  quality than it is in the vineyard row. So why hand hoe it, right? Why crimp in the vineyard  
**[0:33:02-0:33:27](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:33:02):**  and then hoe or till under the vine? It doesn't make, that's not, you're not going to see  the results as quickly by doing that. This episode of Farmerama was made by me,  Olivia Oldham, and Joe Barrett and Abby Rose. A big thanks to the rest of the Farmerama  
**[0:33:27-0:33:41](https://soundcloud.com/farmerama-radio/78-community-gardens-in-tamaki-makaurau-and-organic-no-till-vinyards#t=0:33:27):**  team, Katie Rebel, Fran Bailey, Annie Landless, Eliza Jenkins and Dora Taylor. Our theme music  is by Owen Barrett.  