---
title: Episode 82 Dr Erin Silva
description: Transcripts for podcasts from the regenerative agriculture space. Search and find episodes and timestamps.
---

### Regenerative Agriculture Podcast  (2023-01-19)  
### Author(s): John Kempf  

**[0:00:00-0:00:49](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:00:00):**  Hi friends, this is John and this is the Regenerative Agriculture Podcast where we talk about agronomic science and cultural management practices that have the capacity to regenerate soil health and plant health and livestock health and ultimately of course public health.  And in order for us to sustain that, this whole ecosystem of constantly improving or we could say constantly regenerating health and quality of life for all beings, that also means we need to regenerate ecosystems and landscapes.  And it means we need to have a sustainable monetary system to be able to do that including paying for and supporting all of us farmers who are doing that. So anyway, there's lots that can tie into this topic and I'm broadening my intro longer than normal.  
**[0:00:49-0:01:24](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:00:49):**  It's about more than just the ecology and the landscape, it's also the financial ecosystem that allows all of that to function well and which hasn't allowed it to function quite so well up to this point.  But that might be a conversation for another day. I'm really excited to be back here and to be talking with all of you again.  My guest for this episode is Erin Silva from the University of Wisconsin who many of you may have heard of and if you haven't, then I'm very delighted to introduce you.  
**[0:01:24-0:01:55](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:01:24):**  Erin has really been a pioneer in bringing about the adoption of weed control methods for organic systems using roller crimper and using cover crop rye.  But also a lot more than that. She's known for some of those things but she's done much greater work than that.  So Erin, for those of us who are less familiar with your work, tell us a bit about your story, your background, what is it that brought you here? How did you get to be doing this work that you've been doing for the last decade?  
**[0:01:55-0:02:48](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:01:55):**  Yeah, first, thank you for having me on. It's been a bit of a challenge to find time to get together and chat but having listened to your podcast, I'm really delighted to have a chance to visit with you and talk together about regenerative agriculture and all the benefits that it can bring.  I've been working in organic agriculture since about 2003. I did not grow up on a farm. I grew up close to a city, grew up close to Boston.  But even with my more suburban upbringing, I was exposed to organic gardening quite early on. I still remember as a child working out in our garden, our large garden in an old farmhouse that we owned as a kid.  
**[0:02:48-0:03:45](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:02:48):**  And having my own little plots where I'd grow tomatoes and green beans and walking out there and picking the vegetables and leafing through my mother's organic gardening magazines, the old Rodale magazine.  That was my first exposure to organic gardening and being familiar with growing our own food and just the joy and the work that goes into producing food at a homestead farm level.  But from there, didn't go into my academic career thinking I was necessarily going to go into agriculture but really had more of an interest in environmental science and ecology and understanding just how these complex systems work that are really driving the world around us.  
**[0:03:45-0:04:34](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:03:45):**  And from there, had the opportunity to work in a laboratory at the University of Wisconsin Madison when I was an undergrad.  And at that time, there was a graduate student that was a real leader in organic agriculture still that exposed me again early on to organic agriculture and how it contributed positively to promoting and driving forward sustainable food systems.  And from there, really caught on to working in agriculture and farming and seeing the connection of growing food and ecology and just all the complex interactions that happen when we make our production choices in terms of the crops that we grow and the way that we manage our soils  
**[0:04:34-0:05:11](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:04:34):**  and the broader ecosystem of even the communities that are involved in growing that food. So it's been a kind of a circuitous journey, I guess, into agriculture, not necessarily a straightforward one.  But I think that honestly, that initial connection between ecology and agriculture has really benefited me as I continue to work in organic agriculture and now more in the regenerative agriculture sphere.  You know, I find it really interesting. We've been asked to work on developing curriculum for regenerative agriculture courses for two year and four year degrees by a couple of community colleges.  
**[0:05:11-0:05:48](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:05:11):**  And one of the collaborators in developing this curriculum has really emphasized that one of the fundamental differences between really understanding this different worldview is what he describes as ecological literacy.  And in studying the work that he was bringing forward, it occurred to me that, you know, maybe this is something that's even missing from mainstream agriculture.  It should be inherent in our agricultural worldview. But in fact, maybe we're not fully ecologically literate the way we might be.  
**[0:05:48-0:06:46](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:05:48):**  Yeah, that's really an interesting way of looking at it. I think oftentimes when we think of the environment and agriculture, those two concepts can be at odds.  And I think there's historical reasons why that is with issues with respect to land management and policy and prioritizing how land is utilized and obviously different complex aspects of regulation and other issues that I think we still face as a agricultural community.  But I think that the recognition over the past decade of the critical aspects of biology, when it comes to the agricultural ecosystem, I think that is really helped to connect how agriculture and ecology come together.  
**[0:06:46-0:08:04](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:06:46):**  I think over the decades, you know, prior to this recognition of how critical biology is to a well-functioning agricultural system, we thought of agriculture as very much more of a linear type system where we put in a input, and then there was a certain direct action.  But I think that we recognize more and more how our actions on the land and how we manage our soils and manage our plants really more mimic how we manage even from a human health standpoint, our own health and what we can do to promote the soil biological ecosystem.  Like we promote our gut health by the foods that we eat, by promoting the plant immune system, by making sure that the plant has what it needs to be able to avoid stress the same way that we do what we can to avoid stress and again, eat what we can and put ourselves in a condition where we can better fight disease and illness.  
**[0:08:04-0:08:54](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:08:04):**  And those same parallels exist in our agricultural system.  And it's certainly more complex than applying an input and then having a plant response that is more driven by a chemical reaction, so to speak.  And I think that this is a really important part of our agricultural system and I think that we need to be able to address this function with respect to biology and plant performance as it relates to plant resilience and the ability to be able to naturally resist some of the stresses that we face in our agricultural production systems.  
**[0:08:54-0:09:30](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:08:54):**  And I want to raise such an important perspective as farmers and even in our work at Advancing Eco-Agriculture, we see this constantly there is this expectation of inputs equals certain outputs, kind of this linear mechanistic worldview, if you will, that if I apply X, I need to be confident of being able to observe result Y.  And that becomes a lot more fuzzy in a biological world rather than in a chemistry world.  And there's lots of cumulative stuff that can happen or cannot happen.  
**[0:09:30-0:09:58](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:09:30):**  And I find it interesting as obviously we live in a world where the changes that we want to make or need to make in our systems need to deliver economic results for growers.  And that's fundamental, but sometimes the route to those results is not linear.  And that's, I think, a growing awareness, but something that newcomers to the space still really grapple with at times.  
**[0:09:58-0:10:50](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:09:58):**  Yes, I mean, I very much agree having done research for over 15 years now, coming on to 20 years in organic production systems, it's an aspect of these systems that make this sort of research exciting.  But I think it also presents a challenge with respect to how we do the research and then how that translates to farmer recommendation. And I've certainly seen that with respect to the research that we do with respect to soil management, but also with the work that I've been doing with organic no-till as well.  And I think as we look at how these management practices translate in these more biologically, ecologically driven systems, it's so context dependent.  
**[0:10:50-0:11:26](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:10:50):**  And I know as we look at the health principles, I mean, that is being added on, that context is critically important when we think about what we're doing and how we're doing it.  But it's not as simple as I think some of the trials that we see with a synthetic pesticide where you do X, you get Y result.  Depending on the conditions of a given year or the inherent biology that is present or the genetics of the plant, the outcomes can be different.  
**[0:11:26-0:12:06](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:11:26):**  And that is not necessarily a bad thing, but I think as we look at how that translates into best management practices and communicating with farmers the likely outcomes and reducing risk, it's an important thing to consider.  And I think we need to change the way we think about making recommendations or what our expectations are.  Well, it is when we consider the context, that means if we translate what that really means, it means we need to change the parameters that we're studying or the parameters that we want to implement,  
**[0:12:06-0:12:33](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:12:06):**  the practices or products that we want to use on our farming operation from an individual single focus to a multi-factor focus.  And this quote unquote, the scientific method has evolved over the last seven or eight decades to largely focus, at least in this context, to largely focus on single factor analysis.  We're going to just change this one thing and then see how everything else changes.  
**[0:12:33-0:12:52](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:12:33):**  But in reality, that's not how living systems work.  It's impossible to change just one thing. If you change just one thing, then the whole system moves.  And this is when we look at research, it's a lot more challenging to do systems research in agriculture than it is to do single factor research.  
**[0:12:52-0:13:24](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:12:52):**  And yet for this different paradigm to really thrive, that is what is needed both from a research perspective and from a practical implementation perspective.  Absolutely.  And I think that as we are able to develop frameworks in which we can better capture performance over a larger set of environments and have these communities of practice  
**[0:13:24-0:14:07](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:13:24):**  where we can bring observation as well as replicated trials together, that we can start to be able to see patterns and trends.  But it certainly is a deviation from how we've traditionally done research at the university, which tends to focus more on a single site and limited number of environments and limited timeframes.  And this certainly isn't always the case, so I don't want to oversimplify, but I think that, like you're saying, with these ecological systems, I think that the timeframes that we need to be making observations over  
**[0:14:07-0:14:47](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:14:07):**  and the number of environments we need to be considering are just multifold, even from what we have been doing more in our traditional agricultural research approaches.  So it really kind of takes that need to another level, again, particularly with respect to biology, where biology is going to evolve, and it isn't static.  So as we look at making these changes in the way we manage our soils and what we're doing with respect to crop management, the diversity of crops we grow, the cover crops we use, how we're managing residues,  
**[0:14:47-0:15:30](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:14:47):**  that is not only going to change depending on the year, depending on the precipitation or temperature, it's also going to change as that system matures and the biology continues to evolve in response to management.  So when we consider all of this context, I'd like to bring the conversation back around to your story and the impact that you've been able to have in this overarching ecosystem,  because I know that there are many farmers who are good friends of mine across the Midwest who give you a lot of credit for stimulating them on their journey or kind of triggering them to take the next step  
**[0:15:30-0:15:56](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:15:30):**  and to really go down this pathway, particularly in regards to organic no-till.  I know that others have also done work and helped popularize it, but it's my perception that you, perhaps more than anyone, helped to really figure out the details of how do we make this system work in an organic no-till environment.  Can you tell us a little bit about that and how all that came to be?  
**[0:15:56-0:16:49](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:15:56):**  Yeah, so I actually first started to work in these systems, interestingly, in a very different environment when I was first on the faculty at New Mexico State University.  And that was back in 2003, and when I was brought onto the faculty at New Mexico State University, I just by chance had the opportunity to really dive deeply into organic agriculture with being able to teach a class in organic agriculture that was based on a working student CSA farm that was managed organically  and also had support even almost 20 years ago to do organic research and receive some of the first federal funding that was designated to forward organic agricultural research.  
**[0:16:49-0:17:18](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:16:49):**  And working in New Mexico, that was quite a different environment than what we have in the north central region, the upper Midwest.  And I was working in irrigated agricultural systems in an arid environment with very poor soils.  And the way, because of the issues with water, oftentimes the soil was left bare between the intensive cropping that was done.  
**[0:17:18-0:17:57](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:17:18):**  It was a lot of vegetable cropping that I was working with, onions and chili and cotton production.  And even, again, 20 years ago, as I was driving around southern New Mexico, there were times where we could just see the soil literally moving across the land and the profound soil loss that was stimulated by the winds and just the movement of the soil was quite profound.  So I was actually inspired by work from Ron Morse at Virginia Tech University.  
**[0:17:57-0:18:46](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:17:57):**  And he actually was one of the first people to look at using cover crops to reduce tillage in vegetable systems and looking at trying to design strategies to keep our soils in place and to prevent this erosion that, again, was quite visible.  And he tried to take some of the concepts that he was working on in Virginia and bring that to the irrigated systems in New Mexico.  So even there in a very, very different environment had used cover crops in both the ways that we're doing now with roller crimping, as well as winter killed cover crops and then direct transplanting of chili peppers into the killed residues.  
**[0:18:46-0:19:19](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:18:46):**  And it was really early on in my career that I started to work in these systems.  And when I moved to the University of Wisconsin in 2006, there was another professor here, Dr. Josh Posner, who was very much a pioneer in sustainable agriculture and organic ag research early on at University of Wisconsin-Madison.  And he had just within the past couple years before I had came to UW-Madison had bought a Rodale roller crimper.  
**[0:19:19-0:19:51](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:19:19):**  So between having those experiences already at New Mexico State and that interest and then coming to a university that had access to the equipment to allow me to do this and the systems I would be working in in Wisconsin, our larger row crop and dairy systems began working  in no till research for organic producers in 2006, 2007.  So at that time, I had the pleasure to work with Jeff Moyer from the Rodale Institute.  
**[0:19:51-0:20:48](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:19:51):**  So that really gave me a unique opportunity from someone that was an early leader in this research area and really was a mentor in terms of how to translate the research he was doing in Pennsylvania with the Rodale Institute to Wisconsin.  And so I really had several circumstances line up that really created an ideal situation to begin this research and begin it in a way that really got me off on a solid footing.  And through my work, not only at our research station, but with farmers, I was able to learn a lot fairly quickly in terms of what were the limitations of the system and where were the key points to look at optimizing management to reduce risk and have this system work over the largest range of environments  
**[0:20:48-0:21:20](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:20:48):**  to create a more workable and profitable system for organic farmers.  I find this really interesting that you've had a decade and a half of this research experience and you have certainly shared your knowledge and the things that you've learned very widely and a lot of your information is readily accessible online.  And yet in spite of that pattern, in spite of the readily available information, I still see lots of farmers sharing information on social media.  
**[0:21:20-0:21:44](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:21:20):**  And I'm going to focus specifically on cover crop rife or just because that's what's on my mind at the moment, although I think it's generally true of cover crops more largely.  And there usually are the responses of people who are just starting out are usually on almost polar opposite ends of the spectrum.  It's relatively seldom that I see responses in the middle, although it does happen.  
**[0:21:44-0:22:09](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:21:44):**  But often and maybe this is just because of the nature of the medium of it being on social media.  But often people are really exuberant and saying how awesome results they got and the yield response and the quality response they got from using cover crop rye and either killing it with herbicides or using a raw crimper.  Or they're on the opposite end of the spectrum and talking about how this is an absolute crazy idea and doesn't work and I'm never going to try it again.  
**[0:22:09-0:22:20](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:22:09):**  Obviously there's lots of room in the middle and I'm sure that there are some of those experiences as well.  But I'd love to get your perspective on what is often missed.  Where are the opportunities to go wrong?  
**[0:22:20-0:22:44](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:22:20):**  That's a great question.  And I get a lot of those emails and phone calls as well with both success stories and people calling and it's in very smart, provocative ways and intent to call and wanting to troubleshoot.  Why didn't this work on my farm?  
**[0:22:44-0:23:06](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:22:44):**  And there's been several, I think, similarities I see when the system does not work.  And I certainly don't understand all the nuance and all of where there are specific challenges related to unique environments and specific farms.  We definitely see some trends.  
**[0:23:06-0:23:57](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:23:06):**  And I think the biggest pitfall that people fall into in trying this is that they're not willing to make more substantial changes in their system to set this specific practice up for success.  And this is where I always want to be cautious in terms of my experience in Wisconsin and how that translates into the more local environment that farmers may be experiencing in Iowa or Nebraska or Ohio or Pennsylvania.  Because the way that these cover crops will function is going to vary dramatically depending on latitude and depending on soil moisture.  
**[0:23:57-0:24:58](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:23:57):**  But what I have seen is that in Wisconsin, to make this system work, a farmer must be willing to take a different approach than I think what is the most typical way that they might sequence the crops that they are growing on their farm, which is often  corn followed by soybeans and then potentially followed by a cereal grain and maybe a forage phase.  And corn followed by soybeans does not allow for the cover crop to be planted early enough in the post-harvest period. So we're not even necessarily talking fall here. I mean, it really still is late summer that the cereal rye must be planted to create a weed suppressive mat, both while the rye is growing and also post-termination.  
**[0:24:58-0:26:06](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:24:58):**  Within our systems that we've really designed to maximize the length of the growing season, particularly in the more northern latitudes, where we get into the fields as early as we can and typically pick a hybrid that is going to maximize the entire production season so that we can maximize yields.  We don't leave ourselves a lot of time to plant another crop that is able to provide more of an ecosystem function, including cover crops and including cereal rye for roller crimping or other crops for roller crimping.  It takes a bit of a different shift in mindset that when we talk about maximizing productivity and maximizing profitability, we're not simply talking about the number of bushels per acre that you might be getting off of a field in a certain year.  
**[0:26:06-0:26:44](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:26:06):**  But it's more of this overall ecological perspective of how does that management allow you to have better weed management? How does that allow you to have fewer passes over the field?  How does that allow you to create a system that allows you to reduce not only fertilizer but pesticides by creating a healthier crop?  So I think it takes a different mindset that shifts from yield maximization to functional maximization.  
**[0:26:44-0:27:24](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:26:44):**  And that includes maximizing the functionality of the roller crimper system.  So designing a rotation or even choosing the crop cultivar that allows you to get into the field earlier in late summer, early fall, to me, that's the biggest sticking point.  That instead of having that mindset, farmers are wanting to fit this system into more of business as usual and harvesting corn at the time that they typically would, trying to get cereal rye and expecting it to perform as a roller crimper crop with soybean.  
**[0:27:24-0:28:09](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:27:24):**  And it unfortunately just doesn't.  Thank you, Erin. That's exceptional. And I think there's about half a dozen questions I'd like to ask and follow up to that. But in addition to the obvious variety selection of choosing earlier varieties, what are some of the innovations that you've seen farmers adopt to improve the overall system's performance and really allow it to be effective?  Yeah, I mean, it's looking at including crops beyond corn and soybeans. So corn and soybeans, even in organic grain rotation, they tend to be our foundation crops and certainly are the crops that we have easiest access to markets.  
**[0:28:09-0:29:11](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:28:09):**  And we tend to have higher prices. And we've certainly seen that with soybeans over the last year, we're reaching prices, which really have been unheard of since we've seen a growth in the organic market.  But again, we need to be looking at the resilience of the system over the longer term and not so much focused on the profitability of a single crop, particularly when we know that there will be swings in terms of what are the prices that we're able to get for that crop.  We're much better off thinking about how am I going to create a system where I'm going to be able to stabilize my yields, stabilize my inputs, and look at creating a healthy system that is going to be more resilient to insect and disease pressure and lower my need for external fertility inputs, if possible.  
**[0:29:11-0:30:00](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:29:11):**  So the changes that we've seen is crop diversification. So what crops can I put in my rotation that will allow me to prioritize my cover cropping like I prioritize my cash cropping?  And I'm not saying that this is easy. It certainly takes innovation. It may take the purchase of different equipment, certainly may take more effort with respect to marketing.  But looking at what other cereal grains can I grow here in Wisconsin, we have the opportunity for canning vegetables, sunflowers is an option, buckwheat, field peas for protein.  
**[0:30:00-0:30:57](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:30:00):**  What else can we grow beyond corn and soybeans that really allow us to add that diversification, which not only allows us to put in opportunities for cover crops, including for roller crimping, but that diversification helps foster other aspects of the ecological function of the system  that is going to not only help with maximizing elements of the biological system, but also enhancing our ability to effectively manage weeds, insects and disease.  Coming back to overall ecosystem function. So what has, how has your research evolved over the last half a dozen years? It took some time to establish the foundational principles and to see some early access and see that get adopted into the field.  
**[0:30:57-0:31:33](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:30:57):**  What refinements have happened for you over the last couple of years and what refinements do you expect to see happening in the near future?  We've been working more with looking at alternative crops to add to the diversification of the system.  We've been looking more at adding phases of the crop rotation and not even the overall crop rotation because again, if we have different crops that have a shorter requirement for growth, whether it be field pea or buckwheat, that offers the opportunity to  
**[0:31:33-0:32:21](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:31:33):**  put in an intensive cover crop phase that really helps with building the soil and suppressing weeds. So it's not necessarily giving up income off of those acres for the entire season, but really looking at amplifying what the value is by not only having the cash crop, but also the value that is brought in by the cover crop soil building.  And I've heard this sometimes termed as a regen phase, a regen year, where again, we're really focusing on the value that's derived from that practice, not from harvesting and selling the crop.  But what is that going to contribute in terms of my effective weed management or the fertility additions through adding a legume that could be achieved?  
**[0:32:21-0:33:34](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:32:21):**  So it's really trying to put a mindset of being able to quantify or at least have a thought process of what is the value of having that intensive cover crop regenerate regenerative phase of either a season or overall crop rotation.  The other innovation that we've been working more and more with is having specific tools that allow for more success within these systems. And when we look at where innovation and resources and technology have evolved for agricultural systems, that technology and a lot of that research has been adapted to our typical  systems that we have been using. So our typical corn soybean systems, which do incorporate no till practices, but in a very different way than these cover crop based approaches that are much more complex in terms of the amount of residue and the timing of termination and what is needed to manage in these high biomass systems.  
**[0:33:34-0:34:30](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:33:34):**  So we've been working more and more with both our agricultural engineers here at the UW Madison, but also other partners as well from the private sector to look at what are some of the additional nonchemical tools and the modifications that we might make to our existing tools to allow us to be more successful with planting through these high residue systems, terminating these high residue systems, and allowing more flexibility to manage these systems effectively over a large number of years.  And also in different conditions, even on the same environment across different years. So that innovation that's happening with different sorts of technologies, whether it be mowing equipment or different types of roller crimpers, different ways of managing residue or modifying planters.  For us in our research, I think that that's where we've seen gains. It always feels like the gains are slow in agriculture, only having one chance every year to do something different and then learn from that. But that's too where having this larger community of farmers and practitioners and other experts such as yourself is just so valuable to be able to get to the right level of the  
**[0:34:30-0:35:30](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:34:30):**  environment and to be able to, you know, gain an understanding across multiple approaches and multiple environments so that we could all learn together.  What are you really excited about right now with these various tools that you've been experimenting with? What is really standing out to you as having a lot of potential for success?  Well, we've had quite a degree of success with organic no-till soybeans. And even with the challenges that I do hear reported from farmers to make that organic no-till system work with soybeans, and I do not at all discount those challenges.  
**[0:35:30-0:36:16](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:35:30):**  I know they are real and I know that there are circumstances where the system does not perform like people are hoping. And we do see higher weed pressure and decreased yields from what we might see as optimal.  And again, I think that we are able to better pinpoint why that is, whether it's later planting of the cereal rye that's optimal. So planting after corn harvest in October is not going to work. That cover crop really needs to be planted sometime by mid-September.  Planting that rye too thin as well with a lighter seeding rate is also an issue. And then potentially not having the fertility that allows for rye growth is also an issue at times.  
**[0:36:16-0:36:58](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:36:16):**  But overall, the system, if we do adhere to the different parameters that we know will allow the system to work, that early rye planting, that thicker seeding rate, and managing overall that cover crop like we would our cash crop by ensuring that it has the right nutrients and soil environment it needs,  I've seen a lot of success, not only within our trials, but with the farmers that we work with and the farmers that report back to me that the different experiences that they have.  We have had more challenges with corn and I don't want to get too bottlenecked into corn and soybeans as the only crops that we can grow in these systems.  
**[0:36:58-0:37:41](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:36:58):**  But they certainly again are the foundational crops of many organic grain rotations. More south of us, Pennsylvania and North Carolina, using legume cover crops.  I know that they've had some degree of success, but it's been a real challenge here in Wisconsin because of the limited legumes that we can use that not only will put on substantial biomass,  but will also be susceptible to termination through mechanical means with a roller crimper. We're really quite limited and limited in many cases to hairy vetch as the cover crop that fits the different parameters that we need to allow it to be a roller crimp crop.  
**[0:37:41-0:38:22](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:37:41):**  So with some of the equipment modifications that we've been trying, including interrow crimpers and mowers, we are seeing more and more success within these no-till corn systems.  And I'm excited to see what our results are this year. It's certainly something that I don't think is necessarily ready for adoption across a wider landscape.  I'm certainly hesitant to recommend it to farmers. And if the farmers do want to try these different techniques, I always recommend that they start on a smaller scale with their eyes open in terms of what the risks are.  
**[0:38:22-0:39:00](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:38:22):**  Although I certainly don't want to discourage it either because there's amazing innovation happening there with farmers and on individual farms that again, I think really contribute to just our overall body of knowledge and how to make this work.  But with some of these newer tools, we're able to more effectively terminate those legume cover crops, which allow us to get corn planted earlier.  And also, I think limits some of the challenges that we see with the short growing season of the roller crimped systems with corn, as well as some of the challenges we've seen with termination.  
**[0:39:00-0:39:30](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:39:00):**  So again, we are making gains every year. I think we're still at about 110 bushel an acre, which in Wisconsin is not where we quite want to be in these systems.  But I'm excited that we are still seeing a positive trajectory, even though we're not at the finish line yet.  Yeah, there's still lots of room for improvement based on what you described. But I also, it's my understanding that there are lots of farmers, individuals who have really gone to the distance and are trying new things.  
**[0:39:30-0:40:08](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:39:30):**  In the case of corn, I'm thinking of Lauren Steinloggy and the group of farmers there in north central Iowa that are in northeastern Iowa that are now doing wide row corn, 60 inch corn or intercropping and stuff like that.  So I expect this conversation will probably be very different in five years from now because there's going to be such an accumulated body of experience and knowledge that is in the process of happening right now.  I definitely agree. And that's, there is just so much innovation that's happening. We've also been doing some work on wide row corn and have had very promising results, work with interseeding into corn, different cover crops.  
**[0:40:08-0:40:59](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:40:08):**  And again, I've been really excited about some of the progress there and doing more work too on really cropping and intercropping where we're putting a cereal grain and soybeans together and either harvesting those two crops together or sequentially.  And there are farmers that are doing that in practice and having quite a degree of success. So the innovation that we're seeing is quite inspiring.  And I too think that as we look down the road five to 10 years, there is so much potential in terms of not only transforming our agricultural ecosystems, but also having a greater understanding of just the complexity and the drivers that again help with maximizing the biological function of that soil and then how that translates to both soil health, plant health and finally human and livestock health.  
**[0:40:59-0:41:29](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:40:59):**  I want to shift just a bit. We've been, we've kind of been focusing on corn and soybeans. You mentioned some of the other crop potentials, sunflowers and a number of other crops that you listed off.  Where do you see the biggest opportunity for farmers to shift crop rotations away from corn and soybean orientation?  Yeah, that's a great question. And that is, I think, very regionally specific depending on where there's different market opportunities.  
**[0:41:29-0:42:23](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:41:29):**  I think that there are markets for cereal grains, especially more specialty cereal grains that might be processed by smaller mills. So different varieties of wheat and other specialty grains, including for distilling and brewing as well as baking.  I think oil seeds is another area that we're seeing a lot of interest and potential growth. Sunflowers for oil and winter camelina is another one that we're trying.  I think that there is more of a recognition of our need to improve the resilience of our domestic oil seed supply, especially with some of the challenges we've seen with supply chains with COVID and some of the international conflict that has arisen over the past year or so.  
**[0:42:23-0:42:59](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:42:23):**  That is somewhat dependent on infrastructure and processing capacity. But again, I see that as an area for growth and potentially expansion of some of that processing capacity as well.  And then the market for proteins as well, plant based proteins and looking at where there might be growth in peas and other edible beans is another opportunity.  So it's again very regional specific, somewhat depending on where there is processing capacity and how close you are to I think where the final end user is.  
**[0:42:59-0:43:41](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:42:59):**  But there's certainly those markets and it no doubt does take a bit more time and energy and innovation when it comes to exploring those markets. But they are out there.  Yeah, I think they are out there and you know what I find interesting is I think there's tremendous potential for people to connect growers to the markets.  I'm increasingly having conversations with small scale food companies who have, who are maybe a couple of years old and who are developing really innovative plant ingredient based products that are looking for healthier, higher quality ingredients that are organically grown or regeneratively grown.  
**[0:43:41-0:44:27](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:43:41):**  And they don't know how, they don't know where to go, they don't know who to talk to. And so there's a significant gap there that I think there's is so ripe for opportunity for people to step forward and start having those conversations.  When you think about the agricultural landscape and the people who are involved in farming in different ways, what is something that you believe to be true about agriculture that is very different from the mainstream view?  That's a great question. I think that there are ways that we can approach our agricultural systems that can be quite beneficial to the multiple goals that we have with respect to our land management.  
**[0:44:27-0:45:33](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:44:27):**  Supporting farmer livelihoods, supporting vibrant communities, supporting a strong, stable food supply, plentiful food supply of healthy foods, but also supplying and providing our other benefits that we want to see, including water quality and enhancing biodiversity.  And just promoting the beauty of our natural landscape that we just see all over the US in terms of just how incredible our landscapes are and the beauty of our natural environment.  And I think that there's a lot of work that's been done in agriculture through what we've been learning about regenerative practices. And I think this is true too, as you were saying with the increasing interest of industry with respect to understanding where they're buying from and purchasing healthy food that has been produced in a way that is creating a nutrient-dense product that  
**[0:45:33-0:46:32](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:45:33):**  is producing these other broader goals. I see that continuing. I see that continuing from the interest of consumers and then that following to the interest in the companies and the innovators that are producing those products.  I don't think that it's mutually exclusive to be able to produce high quality plentiful food and reach these other goals of supporting family farms and supporting rural communities and again the amazing natural environment that we live in.  There is a lot of opportunity to step forward that's for sure. And the reality is we live in a moment in time where leadership is desperately needed and it's an opportunity for us as farmers to step forward and be the leaders in this conversation or to collectively drag our feet and not be the innovators and be perceived in a negative rather than a positive light from the population at large.  
**[0:46:32-0:47:10](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:46:32):**  So I think it's really our choice of how we want to step forward and step into that space.  And there's just so many inspiring farmer leaders that are really stepping up to that role of innovating and showing how we can do things differently and being successful at being able to show how we can do things differently. So it's really quite an inspiration to be able to work with the farmers that I just have the opportunity and the privilege to work with.  Now there are many amazing people all working together for the same thing which is very inspiring and there's a lot of fun to be a part of that.  
**[0:47:10-0:48:05](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:47:10):**  Erin, what is a topic that you would like to speak more about but you're not often asked to or you're hesitant to for whatever reason?  Boy, I think understanding, I'm hesitant to talk about this primarily because I still feel like I'm at just such an early stage of my own understanding, having more of a training in agronomy than soil science.  But I just find it so fascinating again how our soil environment, the soil ecosystem, how complex that environment is and just how at the tip of the iceberg we are at our understanding of the interactions between plants and the biological environment around them.  
**[0:48:05-0:49:12](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:48:05):**  Some of the research that we're more recently doing in collaboration with Dr. Zach Friedman who is a fairly new professor here at the University of Wisconsin, a soil biologist, is understanding, trying to understand through a series of experiments how different cultivars of plants, particularly in this case we're using carrot as a model system,  actively change and promote the biology that surrounds the root system, the rhizosphere, and how we might, using that understanding, be able to promote systems that are resilient and promoting a biology that helps with the overall function of the system.  And I think as I look at my own career and my interest in plant biology and agriculture, I originally came in more as a wildlife biologist in my environmental interests thinking that plants were a very passive actor in the environment, that they were something that were part of the landscape,  
**[0:49:12-0:50:17](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:49:12):**  that they weren't active players, like is more visible when you think of a deer or a frog or a squirrel, you can visibly see how they're altering the environment.  But plants, they're also altering the environment under which, in which they are living. And we haven't looked at that with respect to the sorts of research and promoting our understanding as much as we should be to again understand how we're promoting functions.  Just overall, our understanding of soil biology, but particularly those interactions between plants and how plants can respond to their environment, the stressors that are put upon them, and limitations within the environment with respect to nutrients or other factors that create resilience  
**[0:50:17-0:51:12](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:50:17):**  and strength, how they're responding to be able to adapt to those conditions. It's such a fascinating area of research. And again, it's an area that I'm hesitant to talking because I feel like a novice when it comes to the science, but it's such a fascinating area that I think will be one of the aspects of furthering our knowledge that will allow for more transformation of how we do agriculture.  You know, it's really interesting, something about the way that you said that I've studied the way the plants change the environment, speaking in terms of the meteorological environment, the weather and climate and so forth.  I've studied how plants change the soil environment pretty extensively, but something about the way that you framed that and said that just now reminded me or maybe think of plants in a way that I never have before.  
**[0:51:12-0:51:53](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:51:12):**  And when we think about ecological landscapes, there's this whole conversation around biological cascades and keystone species and even super keystone species.  So there's this story that's fairly popular. I'm imagining lots of our listeners have heard of it or can certainly find it.  And it's the story of how wolves changed the landscape of Yellowstone National Park and how the presence of the wolves as predators changed the browsing behavior of elk, which then resulted on giving a very condensed overview here, changed the browsing behavior of the elk.  
**[0:51:53-0:52:16](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:51:53):**  They didn't graze as heavily in the valleys anymore because they were more vulnerable. That allowed the growth of aspen groves along the streams, which created an environment for beaver.  The beaver moved in, started damming the rivers, waterfall moved in.  And the short version is it completely changed the hydrology of the landscape of Yellowstone National Park.  
**[0:52:16-0:52:40](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:52:16):**  And I'm sure that had impacts on the weather of that local ecology as well, simply by introducing wolves as...  And so wolves are often, in this particular context, they would be referred to as a keystone species.  And we are learning about this cascading effect that one of these species can have.  
**[0:52:40-0:53:06](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:52:40):**  And it's important for us to remember that as humans, and our interactions with the landscape as we are, and farming and so forth, that we're actually a super keystone species.  Because we are the ones that used our capacity to remove wolves from the landscape in the first place and then reintroduce them.  And how does that manifest in our farming operation and the way that we are present here in the world?  
**[0:53:06-0:53:39](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:53:06):**  But that's a bit of a sidebar. The point that you made, or for some reason, this story, this way of thinking about the impact of a species on a macro landscape.  We have tended to think of plants as being relatively passive, but what if in fact, particularly in some context, in some environments, plants are a keystone species.  And have this biological cascade effect that has very wide ranging rippling consequences that we may not be thinking about.  
**[0:53:39-0:54:14](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:53:39):**  Yeah, now that is a great way of thinking of it. And I think on more of a local field level, and this is another area that again, I'm only hesitant to talk about this.  Because I feel like it goes a bit further afield of my direct expertise, but a question that I often get from farmers.  And I think again, it's a fascinating area of research that I really want to see more work done is this understanding of how plants and particularly weed species.  
**[0:54:14-0:54:56](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:54:14):**  I think there is, we can think of that interaction in two ways. How is our agricultural systems, how are they, our practices, how are they promoting different weed species?  And what do weed species tell us about potential, both strengths and weaknesses in our management, but also potentially, what are those weed species doing that are potentially altering the system?  Whether it's a different acquisition of nutrients or looking at potentially altering some aspects of the soil physical structure.  
**[0:54:56-0:56:05](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:54:56):**  But I do think that there are so many different potential interactions and patterns that are in our agricultural systems that I think farmers have instinctively have been seeing some of these patterns by being managers of their land and working their fields.  But from a scientific perspective, being able to better understand and even from a management perspective of what cover crops can we grow that might be able to more actively alter the soil environment by promoting different aspects of soil biology or differentially accessing nutrients throughout the soil profile  or influencing the mineralization of different nutrients or again vice versa being able to inform us in terms of where are there either challenges and strengths of our soils that we can either promote or respond to.  
**[0:56:05-0:57:14](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:56:05):**  So that's just I think such a potentially valuable area of research that again, I think there's a lot of observation that can help inform that research, but there is just a lack of more structured rigorous data to be able to more definitively describe what is going on.  Yeah, I actually think there's room for the development of a lot more of that research and the refinement of that, but there is a lot of that out there when we look at the research on defining disease suppressive soils, for example, and the impact that various root systems of different plants and different crops have on that and how the soil microbiome can change.  There is some of that out there and there's enough out there to infer a lot more, but there's still so much that we don't know and then there's what I find really intriguing is how the soil microbiome is managed differently in different cropping systems that if it were understood would be relevant and could be applied so much more broadly than what it is.  
**[0:57:14-0:57:49](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:57:14):**  So one example of this that comes to mind is this technique that is known as ASD, Anaerobic Soil Disinfestation.  And this was developed most recently, I think it has quite some history going back into the 60s and 70s with different cultural management practices.  I don't think it was called ASD back then, if I'm not mistaken, but it's been developed or refined most recently in the Netherlands in the last eight or 10 years as a replacement for fumigation and then has been brought to the United States West Coast in California.  
**[0:57:49-0:58:45](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:57:49):**  And ASD is, I'll give an oversimplified version, it is the feeding of soil biology, a source of very quickly available carbohydrates and a small amount of protein in an anaerobic environment.  And so in California, this involves, I think there's in the Netherlands and in California, there's different feedstocks that are used, some might use corn starch or potato starch and very soluble carbohydrates at fairly large application rates, a few hundred to a few thousand pounds per acre.  And then covering the soil with a sheet of plastic to create an anaerobic environment. And that has the effect of completely changing the soil microbiome to a very intensive disease suppressive microbiome to the degree that it's even called anaerobic soil disinfestation.  
**[0:58:45-0:59:48](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:58:45):**  And when we realize that the root systems of some plants and some crops can have that same effect to an equivalent or even greater degree than this practice can, then now that becomes an idea that is transferable to any cropping system without nearly the costs that are used in these intensive vegetable production systems.  So there's just so much there, there's so much there for us to unpack and to learn about and to implement on a much larger scale.  And that is a great example of just how we can use the power of how plants naturally interact with their environment to help solve some of the challenges in terms of management of our systems that will move us away from reliance on chemical inputs and all the unintended impacts of applying  
**[0:59:48-1:00:20](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=0:59:48):**  those inputs onto the land.  Erin, where can people find out more about the research that you have done in organic no till systems and all the great work that you have done?  Well, our website, you can find our website by googling the acronym OGRAIN, O-G-R-A-I-N. OGRAIN stands for the Organic Grain Research and Information Network.  
**[1:00:20-1:01:12](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=1:00:20):**  And that's our extension program that is focused on providing farmers our research related to organic grain production, but also creating a community of organic grain producers to facilitate people learning from each other and understanding what different perspectives are and what people's experiences are.  So if you Google OGRAIN, you can find our research summaries, our research reports, and also see where we have different educational events, including our winter conference, our OGRAIN conference coming up here in Madison, Wisconsin at the end of January.  Wonderful. Thank you for sharing that. And thank you for sharing your wisdom and knowledge that you've gained with our entire audience. I really appreciate you being here and all the work that you do. And I look forward to having more conversations again in the future.  
**[1:01:12-1:01:43](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=1:01:12):**  Thank you. Me too. It's been wonderful to be able to talk with you and share some of our thoughts together.  The team at AEA and I are dedicated to bringing this show to you because we believe that knowledge and information is the foundation of successful regenerative systems.  At AEA, we believe that growing better quality food and making more money from your crops is possible. And since 2006, we've worked with leading professional growers to help them do just that.  
**[1:01:43-1:02:11](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=1:01:43):**  At AEA, we don't guess, we test, we analyze, and we provide recommendations based on scientific data, knowledge, and experience.  We've developed products that are uniquely positioned to help growers make more money with regenerative agriculture.  If you are a professional grower who believes in testing instead of guessing, someone who believes in a better, more regenerative way to grow, visit advancingecoag.com and contact us to see if AEA is right for you.  
**[1:02:11-1:02:27](https://regenerativeagriculturepodcast.com/episode-82-erin-silva#t=1:02:11):**  Thank you for listening and we look forward to working with you.  